                              THE GAZETTE OF INDIA

                                 EXTRAORDINARY

                               PART –III – SECTION 4

                         PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

                        NEW DELHI, September, 11 2018

                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

                                    NOTIFICATION
                              Mumbai, September 11, 2018

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (BUY-BACK OF SECURITIES)
                                 REGULATIONS, 2018


No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/32. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-
sections (1) and (2) of section 11 and section 30 of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) read with clause (f) of sub-section (2) of
section 68    of the Companies Act, 2013, the Board hereby makes the following
regulations, namely:-



                                      CHAPTER I
                                     PRELIMINARY



Short title and commencement
 1.   (i) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of
      India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018.


      (ii) These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in
      the Official Gazette.


Definitions
 2.   (i) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:—
                                                                            Page 1 of 51
a)   ‘Act’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,
     1992 (15 of 1992);


b)   ‘associate’ includes a person,—


     i)     who directly or indirectly by himself or in combination with
            relatives, exercise control over the company or,
     ii)    whose employee, officer or director is also a director,
            officer or employee of company;


c)   “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India
     established under section 3 of the Act;


d)   ‘Buyback period’ means the period between the date of board of
     directors resolution or date of declaration of results of the postal
     ballot for special resolution, as the case may be, to authorize
     buyback of shares of the company and the date on which the
     payment of consideration to shareholders who have accepted
     the buyback offer is made;


e)   ‘control’ has the same meaning as defined in clause (e) of sub-
     regulation (1) of regulation (2) of the Securities and Exchange
     Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
     Regulations, 2011;


f)   ‘company’ means a company as defined under the Companies
     Act, whose shares or other specified securities are listed on a
     Stock Exchange and which buys or intends to buy such shares or
     other specified securities in accordance with these regulations;


g)   ‘Companies Act’ means the Companies Act, 2013.




                                                               Page 2 of 51
               1[ga)     ‘frequently traded shares‘ shall have the same meaning as assigned
                          to them under the Securities and Exchange Board of India
                          (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations,
                          2011;]


                 h)       ‘insider’ means an insider as defined in clause (g) of sub-
                          regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange
                          Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;

                 i)       ‘merchant banker’ means a merchant banker as defined in
                          clause (cb) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board
                          of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992 and registered
                          under section 12 of the Act;


                 j)       2[***]




                 k)       ‘promoter’ means promoter as defined in clause (s) of sub-
                          regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board
                          of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
                          Regulations, 2011;


                 l)       ‘registrar’ means a registrar to an issue and includes a share
                          transfer agent, registered under section 12 of the Act;

                 3[la)    ‘secretarial auditor‘ means an auditor as defined in the Secretarial
                          Standards – I issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of
                          India;]


                 m)       ‘securities’ mean securities as defined in clause (h) of section 2

1
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
2
  Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its omission, the sub-clause read as under-
         “‘(j) odd lots’ mean the lots of shares or other specified securities of a company, whose shares are
         listed on a recognised stock exchange, which are smaller than such marketable lots, as may be specified
         by the stock exchange;”
3
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                                   Page 3 of 51
             of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);


       (n)   ‘small shareholder’ means a shareholder of a company, who holds
             shares or other specified securities whose market value, on the
             basis of closing price of shares or other specified securities, on the
             recognised stock exchange in which highest trading volume in
             respect of such securities, as on record date is not more than two
             lakh rupee;


       n)    ‘specified securities’ includes employees’ stock option or other
             securities as may be notified by the Central Government from
             time to time;


       o)    ‘statutory auditor’ means an auditor appointed by a company
             under section 139 of the Companies Act;


       p)    ‘stock exchange’ means a stock exchange which has been
             granted recognition under section 4 of the Securities Contracts
             (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);


       q)    ‘tender offer’ means an offer by a company to buy-back its own
             shares or other specified securities through a letter of offer from
             the holders of the shares or other specified securities of the
             company;

       r)    ‘unpublished     price   sensitive    information’ has the same
             meaning as defined in clause (n) of sub-regulation (1) of
             regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
             (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;


       s)    ‘working day’ means any working day of the Board.


(ii)   All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning
       as has been assigned to them under the Act or the Securities Contracts
       (Regulation) Act, 1956, or Companies Act or any statutory modification or
                                                                        Page 4 of 51
                  re-enactment thereof, as the case may be.


                                                  CHAPTER II
                                        CONDITIONS OF BUY-BACK

Applicability:

    3.      These regulations shall be applicable to buy-back of shares or other specified
            securities of a company in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
            Companies Act.
            4[Explanation: For the purposes of these regulations, the term “shares” shall


            include equity shares having superior voting rights.]


Conditions and requirements for buy-back of shares and specified securities:

         4. (i) The maximum limit of any buy-back shall be twenty-five per cent or less of
               the aggregate of paid-up capital and free reserves of the company 5[,
               based on the standalone or consolidated financial statements of the
               company, whichever sets out a lower amount]:

             6[Explanation: In respect of the number of equity shares bought back in any


             financial year, the maximum limit shall be twenty-five per cent and be
             construed with respect to the total paid-up equity share capital of the
             company in that financial year.]

             7[(ii) The ratio of the aggregate of secured and unsecured debts owed by the




4
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2019 w.e.f. 29.07.2019.
5
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words and symbol “, based on both standalone and consolidated
financial statements of the company”.
6
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the explanation read as under-
“‘Explanation: In respect of the buy-back of equity shares in any financial year, the reference to twenty-five per
cent in this regulation shall be construed with respect to its total paid-up equity capital in that financial year;”
7
  Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 19.10.2019 read with corrigendum thereto dated 27.09.2019. Prior to its substitution,
sub-regulation (ii) read as follows,-
          “(ii) The ratio of the aggregate of secured and unsecured debts owed by the company after buy-back
          shall not be more than twice the paid-up capital and free reserves.
          Provided that if a higher ratio of the debt to capital and free reserves for the company has been notified
          under the Companies Act, 2013, the same shall prevail.”

                                                                                                      Page 5 of 51
            company to the paid-up capital and free reserves after buy-back shall,-
                   a) be less than or equal to 2:1, based on 8[the standalone or
                        consolidated financial statements of the company, whichever 9[is
                        lower]]:
                        Provided that if a higher ratio of the debt to capital and free
                        reserves for the company has been notified under the Companies
                        Act, 2013, the same shall prevail; or
                  b) be less than or equal to 2:1, based on 10[the standalone or
                        consolidated financial statements of the company, whichever 11[is
                        lower]], after excluding financial statements of all subsidiaries that
                        are non-banking financial companies and housing finance
                        companies regulated by Reserve Bank of India or National
                        Housing Bank, as the case may be:
                        Provided that buy-back of securities shall be permitted only if all
                        such excluded subsidiaries have their ratio of aggregate of
                        secured and unsecured debts to the paid-up capital and free
                        reserves of not more than 6:1 on standalone basis.]


    (iii)     All shares or other specified securities for buy-back shall be fully paid-up.


    (iv)     A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities by any
             one of the following methods:


                 a)       from the existing share holders or other specified securities
                          holders on a proportionate basis through the tender offer 12[:]



8
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the
company”.
9 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)

Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024 for the words “sets out a lower amount”.
10
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the
company”.
11 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)

Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024 for the words “sets out a lower amount”.
12 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)

Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024 for the symbol “;”.

                                                                                                  Page 6 of 51
                                    13[Provided    that in case any member of the promoter /
                          promoter group has declared its intention to not participate in the
                          buy-back, the shares held by such member of the promoter /
                          promoter group shall not be considered for computing the
                          entitlement ratio.]


                 b)       from the open market through—
                          i)        book-building process,
                          ii)       stock exchange;


                 c)       14[***]




                15[Provided      that the buy-back from the open market through stock
                   exchanges, based on the standalone or consolidated financial
                   statements of the company, whichever sets out a lower amount, shall
                   be less than:—


                       (i) fifteen per cent of the paid up capital and free reserves of the
                          company till March 31, 2023;


                       (ii) ten per cent of the paid up capital and free reserves of the
                          company till March 31, 2024;


                       (iii) five per cent of the paid up capital and free reserves of the
                          company till March 31, 2025:


                   Provided further that buy-back from the open market through the
                   stock exchange shall not be allowed with effect from April 1, 2025.]



13  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024.
14
   Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its omission, the sub-clause read as “‘c) from odd-lot holders:”.
15
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the proviso read as under-
“Provided that the buyback from open market shall be less than fifteen per cent of the paid up capital and free
reserves of the company, based on both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the company.”.

                                                                                                  Page 7 of 51
(v)      A company shall not buy-back its shares or other specified securities so
         as to delist its shares or other specified securities from the stock
         exchange.


(vi)     A company shall not buy-back its shares or other specified securities from
         any person through negotiated deals, whether on or off the stock
         exchange     or   through    spot   transactions   or   through   any   private
         arrangement.


(vii)    A company shall not make any offer of buy-back within a period of one
         year reckoned from the date of expiry of buyback period of the preceding
         offer of buy-back, if any.


(viii)   A company shall not allow buy-back of its shares unless the consequent
         reduction of its share capital is effected.


(ix)     A company may undertake a buy-back of its own shares or other specified
         securities out of—
            (a)     its free reserves;
            (b)     the securities premium account; or
            (c)     the proceeds of the issue of any shares or other specified
                    securities:


                    Provided that no such buy-back shall be made out of the proceeds
            of an earlier issue of the same kind of shares or same kind of other
            specified securities.


(x)      No company shall directly or indirectly purchase its own shares or other
         specified securities:
            (a) through any subsidiary company including its own subsidiary
                  companies;
            (b) through any investment company or group of investment
                  companies; or
            (c) if a default is made by the company in the repayment of deposits

                                                                             Page 8 of 51
                       accepted either before or after the commencement of the
                       Companies       Act,    interest     payment      thereon,      redemption       of
                       debentures or preference shares or payment of dividend to any
                       shareholder, or repayment of any term loan or interest payable
                       thereon to any financial institution or banking company:
                         Provided that the buy-back is not prohibited, if the default is
                 remedied and a period of three years has lapsed after such default
                 ceased to subsist.


General compliance and filing requirements for buy-back:
     5.   (i) The company shall not authorise any buy-back (whether by way of tender
             offer or from open market 16[***]) unless:


                 a)      The buy-back is authorised by the company's articles;


                 b)      A special resolution has been passed at a general meeting of
                         the company authorising the buy-back:

                                  Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply
                         to a case where the buy-back is, ten per cent or less of the total
                         paid-up equity capital and free reserves of the company17[,
                         based on the standalone or consolidated financial statements of
                         the company, whichever sets out a lower amount]; and such
                         buy-back has been authorised by the board of directors by
                         means of a resolution passed at its meeting.

               18[c)    It has obtained the prior consent of its lenders in case of a breach
                         of   any covenant with such lender(s).


                Explanation: The letter of offer to be prepared by the company in

16
   The words “or odd lot” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
17
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words and symbol “, based on both standalone and consolidated
financial statements of the company”.
18
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                              Page 9 of 51
        accordance with these regulations shall contain a specific disclosure of
        the consent obtained by the company from its lender(s).]


(ii)    Every buy-back shall be completed within a period of one year from the
        date of passing of the special resolution at general meeting, or the
        resolution passed by the board of directors of the company, as the
        case may be.


(iii)   The company shall, after expiry of the buy-back period, file with the
        Registrar of Companies and the Board, a return containing such
        particulars relating to the buy-back within thirty days of such expiry, in
        the format as specified in the Companies (Share Capital and
        Debentures) Rules, 2014.


(iv)    Where a special resolution is required for authorizing a buy-back, the
        explanatory statement to be annexed with the notice for the general
        meeting pursuant to section 102 of the Companies Act shall contain
        mandatory      disclosures   mentioned     therein     and   the     following
        disclosures:

        a)     Disclosures under sub-section 3 of section 68 of the Companies
               Act—
               i)      a full and complete disclosure of all material facts;
               ii)     the necessity for the buy-back;
               iii)    the class of shares or securities intended to be purchased
                       under the buy-back;
               iv)     the amount to be invested under the buy-back; and
               v)      the time-limit for completion of buy-back.


        b)     Additional disclosures under these regulations as provided in
               Schedule I,

        c)     Provided that where the buy-back is through tender offer from
               existing securities holders, the explanatory statement shall
               contain the following additional disclosures:

                                                                           Page 10 of 51
                         i)       the maximum price at which the buy-back of shares or
                                  other specified securities shall be made and whether the
                                  board of directors of the company is being authorised at
                                  the general meeting to determine subsequently the
                                  specific price at which the buy-back may be made at the
                                  appropriate time;

                         ii)      if the promoter intends to offer his shares or other specified
                                  securities, the quantum of shares or other specified
                                  securities proposed to be tendered and the details of their
                                  transactions and their holdings for the last six months prior
                                  to the passing of the special resolution for buy-back
                                  including information of number of shares or other specified
                                  securities acquired, the price and the date of acquisition.


        (v)      A copy of the resolution passed at the general meeting under sub-
                 section (2) of section 68 of the Companies Act shall be filed with the
                 Board and the stock exchanges where the shares or other specified
                 securities of the company are listed, within 19[seven working days] from
                 the date of passing of the resolution.


        (vi)     Where the buy-back is from open market either through the stock
                 exchange or through book building, the resolution of board of directors
                 shall specify the maximum price at which the buy-back shall be made:
                         Provided that where there is a requirement for the Special
                 Resolution as specified in clause (b) of sub-regulation 1 of regulation 5
                 of these Regulations, the special resolution shall also specify the
                 maximum price at which the buy-back shall be made.


      20[(via)   In case of a buy-back through tender offer, the Board of Directors of the


19
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “seven days”.
20
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                             Page 11 of 51
                 company may, till one working day prior to the record date, increase the
                 maximum buy-back price and decrease the number of securities
                 proposed to be bought back, such that there is no change in the
                 aggregate size of the buy-back.]


        (vii)    A company, authorized by a resolution passed by the board of directors
                 at its meeting to buy-back its shares or other specified securities under
                 the proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 68 of the
                 Companies Act, shall file a copy of the resolution, with the Board and
                 the stock exchanges, where the shares or other specified securities of
                 the company are listed, within two working days of the date of the
                 passing of the resolution.


        (viii)   No insider shall deal in shares or other specified securities of the
                 company on the basis of unpublished price sensitive information
                 relating to buy-back of shares or other specified securities of the
                 company.


      21[(ix)    For the purpose of these regulations, all the filings to the Board shall be
                 made only in electronic mode after being digitally signed by the
                 company secretary or the person authorized by the board of the
                 company.]




21
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                            Page 12 of 51
                                              CHAPTER III
                               BUY-BACK THROUGH TENDER OFFER



     6.   A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities from its
          existing securities holders on a proportionate basis in accordance with the
          provisions of this Chapter:
                 Provided that fifteen per cent of the number of securities which the
          company proposes to buy-back or number of securities entitled as per their
          shareholding, whichever is higher, shall be reserved for small shareholders.


Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for public announcement:
     7.   (i) The company which has been authorised by a special resolution or a
             resolution passed by the board of directors, as the case may be, shall
             make a public announcement within two working days from the date of
             declaration of results of the postal ballot for special resolution/board of
             directors resolution in at least one English National Daily, one Hindi
             National Daily and one Regional language daily, all with wide circulation at
             the place where the Registered Office of the company is situated and the
             said public announcement shall contain all the material information as
             specified in Schedule II.


                 (ii)     22[The    company        shall,    simultaneously        with     the    public
                          announcement made in terms of clause (i), along with the fees
                          specified in Schedule V, file a copy of the public announcement
                          in electronic mode, with the Board and the stock exchanges on
                          which its shares or other specified securities are listed.]

               23[(iii)   The stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate the public
                          announcement to the public.


22
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the clause read as under-
“‘(ii) A copy of the public announcement along with the soft copy, shall also be submitted to the Board,
simultaneously, through a merchant banker.”.
23
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                             Page 13 of 51
                  (iv)     A copy of the public announcement shall be placed on the
                          respective websites of the stock exchange(s), merchant banker
                          and the company.]


Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for 24[***] letter of offer
     8. (i) The company shall within 25[two working days from the record date, file the
             following in electronic mode] with the Board:


                 a)       26[a   letter of offer, containing disclosures as specified in
                          Schedule III, through a merchant banker who is not an
                          associate of the company.]

              27[aa)     a certificate in the form specified by the Board, issued by the
                            merchant banker, who is not an associate of the company,
                            certifying that the buy-back offer is in compliance of these
                            regulations and that the letter of offer contains the information
                            required under these regulations.


                            Explanation: The term “associate” shall have the meaning
                            assigned to it in regulation 21A of the Securities and Exchange
                            Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992, as
                            amended from time to time.]


                 b)       a declaration of solvency in specified form and in a manner
                          provided in sub-section (6) of section 68 of the Companies Act.


                 c)       28[***]



24
    The word “draft” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
25 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “five working days of the public announcement file the
following”.
26
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the sub-clause read as under-
“‘a draft letter of offer, along with a soft copy, containing disclosures as specified in Schedule III through a
merchant banker who is not associated with the company.”
27
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
28
   Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,

                                                                                                 Page 14 of 51
                             29[Explanation: In case of buy-back through tender offer, no


                             draft letter of offer is required to be filed with the Board.]


         (ii)      30[***]




Offer procedure
  9.    (i) A company making a buy-back offer shall announce a record date in the
                public announcement for the purpose of determining the entitlement and
                the names of the security holders, who are eligible to participate in the
                proposed buy-back offer.


        (ii) The letter of offer along with the tender form shall be dispatched to the
        securities holders who are eligible to participate in the buy-back offer 31[***].


       32[Explanation: The public announcement shall disclose that the dispatch of


        the letter of offer, shall be through electronic mode in accordance with the
        provisions of the Companies Act, within two working days from the record
        date and that in the case of receipt of a request from any shareholder to
        receive a copy of the letter of offer in physical form, the same shall be
        provided.]


2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its omission, the sub-clause read as “‘fees specified in Schedule V..”
29
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
30
   Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its omission, the clause read as under-
 “‘The Board may provide its comments on the draft letter of offer not later than seven working days of the
receipt of the draft letter of offer:
Provided that in the event the Board has sought clarifications or additional information from the merchant
banker to the buy-back offer, the period of issuance of comments shall be extended to the seventh working day
from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply to the clarification or additional information sought:
Provided further that in the event the Board specifies any changes, the merchant banker to the buy-back offer
and the company shall carryout such changes in the letter of offer before it is dispatched to the shareholders.”
31
   The words and symbols “as per sub regulation (i), not later than five working days from the receipt of
communication of comments from the Board” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-
Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
32
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the explanation read as under-
“Explanation: (a) Letter of Offer may also be dispatched through electronic mode in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act.
(b) On receipt of a request from any shareholder to receive a copy of the letter of offer in physical form, the
same shall be provided.
(c) The aforesaid shall be disclosed in the letter of offer.”

                                                                                                 Page 15 of 51
        (iii)    Even if an eligible public shareholder does not receive the tender
        offer/offer form, he may participate in the buy-back offer and tender shares in
        the manner as provided by the Board.


        (iv)     An unregistered shareholder may also tender his shares for buy-back
        by submitting the duly executed transfer deed for transfer of shares in his
        name, along with the offer form and other relevant documents as required for
        transfer, if any.

        (v)      The date of the opening of the offer shall be not later than 33[four
        working days from the record date].


        (vi)     The offer for buy-back shall remain open for a period of 34[five] working
        days.


        (vii)    The company shall facilitate tendering of shares by the shareholders
        and settlement of the same, through the stock exchange mechanism in the
        manner as provided by the Board.

        (viii)   The company shall accept shares or other specified securities from the
        securities holders on the basis of their entitlement as on record date.


        (ix)     The shares proposed to be bought back shall be divided into two
        categories; (a) reserved category for small shareholders and (b) the general
        category for other shareholders, and the entitlement of a shareholder in each
        category shall be calculated accordingly.

                 ‘Explanation: Holdings of multiple demat accounts would be clubbed
                 together for identification of small shareholder if sequence of
                 Permanent Account Number for all holders is matching. Similarly, in
                 case of physical shareholders, if the sequence of names of joint

33
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “five working days from the date of dispatch of the letter of
offer”.
34
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “ten”.

                                                                                                 Page 16 of 51
                 holders is matching, holding under such folios should be clubbed
                 together for identification of small shareholder.’


        (x)      After accepting the shares or other specified securities tendered on the
        basis of entitlement, shares or other specified securities left to be bought
        back, if any in one category shall first be accepted, in proportion to the shares
        or other specified securities tendered over and above their entitlement in the
        offer by securities holders in that category and thereafter from securities
        holders who have tendered over and above their entitlement in other
        category.


        (xi)     Escrow account


                 (a)     The company shall, 35[within two working days of the public
                         announcement,] as and by way of security for performance of its
                         obligations under the regulations, 36[***] deposit in an escrow
                         account such sum as specified in clause (b);


                 (b)     The escrow amount shall be payable in the following manner:


                         (i)      if the consideration payable does not exceed Rupees 100
                                  crores; 25 per cent of the consideration payable;


                         (ii)     if the consideration payable exceeds Rupees 100 crores;
                                  25 per cent upto Rupees 100 crores and 10 per cent
                                  thereafter.


                (c)      The escrow account referred to in this regulation shall 37[, subject
                         to appropriate margin as specified by the Board,] consist of,


35
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
36
   The words and symbols “on or before the opening of the offer,” omitted by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
37
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                             Page 17 of 51
                          (i)      38[cash   including bank deposits deposited with any
                                   scheduled commercial bank], or

                          (ii)     bank guarantee        39[issued    in favour of the merchant
                                   banker by any scheduled commercial bank], or

                          (iii)    deposit of 40[frequently traded and freely transferable
                                   equity shares or other freely transferable securities], or

                       41[(iiia)   government securities, or

                          (iiib)    units of mutual funds invested in gilt funds and overnight
                                    schemes, or]

                          (iv)     a combination of 42[ above].



                 Explanation: The cash component of the escrow account may be
                 maintained in an interest bearing account, provided that the merchant
                 banker ensures that the funds are available at the time of making
                 payment to shareholders.


                 (d)       Where the escrow account consists of deposit with a scheduled
                           commercial bank, the company shall, while opening the account,
                           empower the merchant banker to instruct the bank to make
                           payment the amount lying to the credit of the escrow account, as
                           provided in the regulations.


                (e)       Where the escrow account consists of a bank guarantee, such


38
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “cash deposited with a scheduled commercial bank”.
39
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “in favour of the merchant banker”.
40
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words and symbol “acceptable securities with appropriate margin,
with the merchant banker”.
41
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
42
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “(i), (ii) and (iii)”.

                                                                                              Page 18 of 51
                          bank guarantee shall be in favour of the merchant banker and
                          shall be valid until 43[thirty working days after the expiry of buy-
                          back period or until the completion of all obligations under these
                          regulations, whichever is later].

               44[Explanation:        The bank guarantee shall not be returned by the
                 merchant banker until the completion of all obligations under these
                 regulations.]


                  (f)      The company shall, in case the escrow account consists of
                           securities, empower the merchant banker to realise the value of
                           such escrow account by sale or otherwise and if there is any
                           deficit on realisation of the value of the securities, the merchant
                           banker shall be liable to make good any such deficit.


                  (g)      In case the escrow account consists of                         45[***}    approved
                           securities, these shall not be returned by the merchant banker
                           till completion of all obligations under the regulations.


                 (h)      46[Where part of the escrow account is in a form other than cash,


                          the company shall deposit with a scheduled commercial bank, in
                          cash, a sum of not less than two and half per cent of the total
                          amount earmarked for buyback as specified in the resolution of
                          the Board of Directors or the special resolution, as the case may
                          be, as security for the fulfilment of its obligations under the
                          regulations.]



43
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “thirty days after the expiry of buyback period”.
44
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
45
    The words “bank guarantee or” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of
Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
46
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the sub-clause read as under-
“Where the escrow account consists of bank guarantee or deposit of approved securities, the company shall also
deposit with the bank in cash a sum of at least one per cent of the total consideration payable, as and by way of
security for fulfillment of the obligations under the regulations by the company.”

                                                                                                    Page 19 of 51
                     (i)    On payment of consideration to all the securities holders who
                            have accepted the offer and after completion of all formalities of
                            buy-back, the amount, guarantee and securities in the escrow, if
                            any, shall be released to the company.


                     (j)    The Board in the interest of the securities holders may in case of
                            nonfulfillment of obligations under the regulations by the
                            company forfeit the escrow account either in full or in part.


          (xii)      The amount forfeited under clause (j) may be distributed pro rata
                     amongst the securities holders who accepted the offer and balance, if
                     any, shall be utilised for investor protection.


Closure and payment to securities holders:
     10. (i) The company shall immediately after the date of closure of the offer, open
                  a special account with a banker to an issue, registered with the Board and
                  deposit therein, such sum as would, together with ninety per cent of the
                  amount lying in the escrow account, make-up the entire sum due and
                  payable as consideration for buy-back in terms of these regulations and
                  for this purpose, may transfer the funds from the escrow account.


                  (ii) The company shall complete the verification of offers received and
                  make payment of consideration to those holders of securities whose offer
                  has been accepted and return the remaining shares or other specified
                  securities to the securities holders     within 47[five] working days of the
                  closure of the offer.


Extinguishment of certificate and other closure compliances:
      11.         (i) The company shall extinguish and physically destroy the securities
                  certificates so bought back in the presence of a 48[registrar to an issue] or


47
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “seven”.
48
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “registrar to issue”.

                                                                                    Page 20 of 51
                the Merchant Banker and the 49[secretarial auditor] within fifteen days of
                the date of acceptance of the shares or other specified securities.


        Provided that the company shall ensure that all the securities bought-back
        are extinguished within 50[seven working days] of expiry of buy-back period.


        Explanation: The aforesaid period of 51[fifteen working days] shall in no case
        extend beyond 52[seven working days] of expiry of buy-back period.


        (ii)       The shares or other specified securities offered for buy-back if already
        dematerialised shall be extinguished and destroyed in the manner specified
        under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and
        Participants) Regulations, 1996, and the bye-laws, the circulars and
        guidelines framed thereunder.


        (iii)      The company shall, furnish a certificate to the Board certifying
        compliance as specified in sub-regulation (i) above, and duly certified and
        verified by:
                   a)     the registrar and whenever there is no registrar, by the merchant
                          banker;
                   b)     two directors of the company, one of whom shall be a managing
                          director, where there is one; and
                   c)     the 53[secretarial auditor] of the company,


      54[Explanation:       This certificate shall be furnished to the Board within seven
        working days of the extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.]

49
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “Statutory Auditor”.
50
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “seven days”.
51
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “fifteen days”.
52
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “seven days”.
53
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “Statutory Auditor”.
54
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words and symbol “This certificate shall be furnished to the Board
within seven days of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.”

                                                                                                Page 21 of 51
        (iv)      The company shall furnish the particulars of the securities certificates
        extinguished and destroyed under sub-regulation (i), to the stock exchanges
        where the shares of the company are listed within seven days of
        extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.


        (v)       Where a company buys back its shares or other specified securities
        under these regulations, it shall maintain a register of the shares or securities
        so bought, the consideration paid for the shares or securities bought back, the
        date of cancellation of shares or securities, the date of extinguishing and
        physically destroying the shares or securities and such other particulars as
        may be prescribed in sub-section (9) of section 68 of the Companies Act.


     12.       55[***]




                                             CHAPTER IV
                              BUY-BACK FROM THE OPEN MARKET



     13.       A company intending to buy-back its shares or other specified securities
               from the open market shall do so in accordance with the provisions of this
               Chapter.


     14.       The buy-back of shares or other specified securities from the open market
               may be in any one of the following methods:
                  (a)     through stock exchange,
                  (b)     book-building process.




55
  Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its omission, the Regulation read as under-
 “Odd-lot buy-back
    12. The provisions pertaining to buy-back through tender offer as specified in this Chapter shall be
        applicable mutatis mutandis to odd-lot shares or other specified securities.”

                                                                                           Page 22 of 51
      15.        56[(i)] The company shall ensure that at least 57[seventy-five percent] of the


                 amount earmarked for buy-back, as specified in the resolution of the board
                 of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be, is utilized for
                 buying-back shares or other specified securities.


                58[(ii) The company shall ensure that at a minimum of forty per cent of the


                amount earmarked for the buy-back, as specified in the resolution of the
                Board of Directors or the special resolution, as the case may be, is utilized
                within the initial half of the specified duration.]


Buy-back through stock exchange
     16. (i) The buy-back shall be made only on stock exchanges having nationwide
                 trading terminals;


         59[Explanation:        For the purpose of buy-back through stock exchange, a
         separate window shall be created by the concerned stock exchange and such
         window shall remain open for the period specified in these regulations.]


         (ii)       The buy-back of the shares or other specified securities through the
         stock exchange shall not be made from the promoters or persons in control of
         the company;


         (iii)      The buy-back of shares or other specified securities shall be made only
         through the order matching mechanism except ‘all or none’ order matching
         system;


         (iv)       Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines of public announcement:


                    a)      The company shall appoint a merchant banker and make a
56
   Existing provision rearranged as clause (i) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of
Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
57
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “fifty per cent”.
58
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
59
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                             Page 23 of 51
                         public announcement as referred to in regulation 7 pertaining to
                         tender offer;


                 b)      The public announcement shall be made within two working
                         days from the date of passing the board of directors resolution
                         or date of declaration of results of the postal ballot for special
                         resolution, as relevant and shall contain disclosures as specified
                         in Schedule IV;


                 c)      60[The     company        shall,    simultaneously        with     the    public
                         announcement made in terms of sub-clause (a), along with the
                         fees specified in Schedule V, file a copy of the public
                         announcement in electronic mode with the Board and the stock
                         exchanges on which its shares or other specified securities are
                         listed;]



             61[(ca)     The stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate the public
                         announcement to the public;


                (cb)     A copy of the public announcement shall be placed on the
                         respective websites of the stock exchange(s), merchant banker
                         and the company;]


                 d)      The public announcement shall also contain disclosures
                         regarding details of the brokers and stock exchanges through
                         which the buy-back of shares or other specified securities would
                         be made;


                 Explanation: In case of the buy-back from open market, no draft letter

60
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the sub-clause read as under-
“Simultaneously with the issue of such public announcement, the company shall file a copy of the public
announcement with the Board along with the fees specified in Schedule V;.”
61
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                             Page 24 of 51
                   of offer/ letter of offer is required to be filed with the Board.


       62[(v)   The buy-back through stock exchanges shall be undertaken only in
                 respect of frequently traded shares;


          (vi) The buy-back through stock exchanges shall be subject to the restrictions
                 on placement of bids, price and volume as specified by the Board.]




Opening of the offer on stock exchange:
     17. (i) The identity of the company as a purchaser shall appear on the electronic
                screen when the order is placed;


        63[(ii) The buy-back offer shall open not later than four working days from the 64[


                date of public announcement] and shall close:-


            a) within six months, if the buy-back offer is opened on or before March
               31, 2023;

            b) within 66 working days, if the buy-back offer is opened on or after April
               1, 2023 and till March 31, 2024; and

           c) within 22 working days, if the buy-back offer is opened on or after April 1,
              2024 and till March 31, 2025:

            Provided that with effect from April 1, 2025, the option of open market buy-
            back through the stock exchange shall not be available to any company
            except in cases where the buyback offer has opened on or before Mach 31,
            2025.]

Subsequent compliances for open market buy-back through stock exchange:
     18. (i) The company shall submit the information regarding the shares or other
62
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
63
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the clause read as under-
“(ii) The buy-back offer shall open not later than seven working days from the date of public announcement and
shall close within six months from the date of opening of the offer.”
64 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)

Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024 for the words “record date”.

                                                                                                Page 25 of 51
          specified securities bought-back, to the stock exchange on a daily basis in
          such form as may be specified by the Board and the stock exchange shall
          upload the same on its official website immediately;


  (ii)       The company shall upload the information regarding the shares or
  other specified securities bought-back on its website on a daily basis.


19.       A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities in
          physical form in the open market through stock exchange by following the
          procedure as provided hereunder:


  (i)        A separate window shall be created by the stock exchange, which shall
             remain open during the period of buy-back, for buy-back of shares or
             other specified securities in physical form.


  (ii)       The company shall buy-back shares or other specified securities from
             eligible shareholders holding physical shares through the separate
             window specified in sub-regulation (i), only after verification of the
             identity proof and address proof by the broker.


  (iii)      The price at which the shares or other specified securities are bought
             back shall be the volume weighted average price of the shares or other
             specified securities bought-back, other than in the physical form, during
             the calendar week in which such shares or other specified securities
             were received by the broker:


  Provided that the price of shares or other specified securities tendered during
  the first calendar week of the buy-back shall be the volume weighted average
  market price of the shares or other specified securities of the company during
  the preceding calendar week.




                                                                           Page 26 of 51
        65[Provided    further that the effect on the price of the equity shares of the
        company due to material price movement and confirmation of reported event
        or information may be excluded as per the framework specified under sub-
        regulation (11) of regulation 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
        (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for
        determination of the volume weighted average market price.]


        Explanation: In case no shares or other specified securities were bought
        back in the normal market during calendar week, the preceding week when
        the company has last bought back the shares or other specified securities
        may be considered.


Escrow account for open market buy-back through stock exchange:
     20.     (i) The company shall,            66[within    two working days of the public
             announcement],         create     an    escrow      account      towards     security     for
             performance of its obligations under these regulations, and deposit in
             escrow account 25 per cent of the amount earmarked for the buy-back as
             specified in the resolution of the board of directors or the special
             resolution, as the case may be.


        (ii) The escrow account referred to in sub-regulation (i) may be 67[subject to
        appropriate margin as specified by the Board,] in the form of,—
                 a)      cash deposited with any scheduled commercial bank; or
                 b)      bank guarantee issued in favour of the merchant banker by any
                         scheduled commercial bank.
               68[c)    deposit of frequently traded and freely transferable equity shares
                         or other freely transferable securities with appropriate margin
                         with the merchant banker; or


65   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 18.05.2024.
66
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “before opening of the offer”.
67
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
68
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                             Page 27 of 51
              (d) government securities; or

              (e) units of mutual funds invested in gilt funds and overnight schemes; or

              (f) a combination of the above.]

               Explanation: The cash component of the escrow account may be
               maintained in terms of Explanation to clause (c) of sub-regulation (xi) of
               regulation 9.


       (iii) For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a cash deposit
       with a scheduled commercial bank, the company shall while opening the
       account, empower the merchant banker to instruct the bank to make payment
       of the amounts lying to the credit of the escrow account, to meet the
       obligations arising out of the buy-back.


       (iv)    For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a bank
               guarantee:


               a)      the same shall be in favour of the merchant banker and shall be
                       kept valid for a period of 69[thirty working days] after the expiry of
                       buyback period of the offer or till the completion of all obligations
                       under these regulations, whichever is later.


               b)      the same shall not be returned by the merchant banker till
                       completion of all obligations under the regulations.


       (v)     Where part of the escrow account is in the form 70[other than cash], the
               company shall deposit with a scheduled commercial bank, in cash, a
               sum of at least 2.5 per cent of the total amount earmarked for buy-back
               as specified in the resolution of the board of directors or the special
               resolution, as the case may be, as and by way of security for fulfillment


69
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “thirty days”.
70
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “of a bank guarantee”.

                                                                                    Page 28 of 51
         of the obligations under the regulations by the company.



(vi)     The escrow amount may be released for making payment to the
shareholders subject to at least 2.5 per cent of the amount earmarked for buy-
back as specified in the resolution of the board of directors or the special
resolution, as the case may be, remaining in the escrow account at all points
of time.


(vii)    On fulfilling the obligation specified in regulation 15, the amount and
the guarantee remaining in the escrow account, if any, shall be released to
the company.


(viii)   In the event of non-compliance with regulation 15, the Board may direct
the merchant banker to forfeit the escrow account, subject to a maximum of
2.5 per cent of the amount earmarked for buy-back as specified in the
resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may
be, except in cases where,-
         a)     volume weighted average market price (VWAMP) of the shares
                or other specified securities of the company during the buy-back
                period was higher than the buy-back price as certified by the
                Merchant banker based on the inputs provided by the Stock
                Exchanges.
         b)     sell orders were inadequate despite the buy orders placed by
                the company as certified by the Merchant banker based on the
                inputs provided by the Stock Exchanges.
         c)     such circumstances existed which were beyond the control of
                the   company and in       the   opinion   of   the   Board merit
                consideration.


(ix)     In the event of forfeiture for non-fulfillment of obligations specified in
sub-regulation (viii) of this regulation, the amount forfeited shall be deposited
in the Investor Protection and Education Fund of Securities and Exchange
Board of India.

                                                                        Page 29 of 51
     Extinguishment of certificates for open market buy-back through stock
     exchange:
     21.      (i) Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (ii) and (iii), the provisions
              of regulation 11 pertaining to the extinguishment of certificates for tender
              offers shall apply for extinguishment of certificates under this Chapter.


             (ii) The company shall complete the verification of acceptances within
             71[fifteen working days] of the payout.




             (iii) The company shall extinguish and physically destroy the securities
             certificates so bought back during the month in the presence of a
             Merchant        Banker        and     the     72[secretarial     auditor], on or before the
             fifteenth day of the succeeding month:
                  Provided that the company shall ensure that all the securities
             bought-back are extinguished within 73[seven working days] of expiry of
             buy-back period.


     Buy-back through book building
     22.      74[ A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities from



71
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “fifteen days”.
72
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “Statutory Auditor”.
73
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “seven days”.
74
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the clause read as under-
    22. “A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities through the book-building process as
        provided hereunder:
             (i) The Special resolution or the board of directors resolution, as the case may be, shall be passed
                   in accordance with regulation 5.
             (ii) Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for public announcement:
                            (a)       The company shall appoint a merchant banker and make a public
                                      announcement as referred to in regulation 7.
                            (b)       The disclosures in the public announcement shall also be in accordance with
                                      Schedule II.
                            (c)       The public announcement shall be made at least seven days prior to the
                                      commencement of buy-back.
             (iii) Subject to the provisions of clause (a) and clause (b) of this sub-regulation, the provisions of
                   sub-regulation (xi) of regulation 9 shall apply:
                            (a)       The deposit in the escrow account shall be made before the date of the
                                      public announcement.

                                                                                                    Page 30 of 51
                 its existing securities holders through the book building process.]

     75[Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for public announcement:




22A.      (i)       The company, which has been authorised by a special resolution or a
                    resolution passed by its Board of Directors, as the case may be, shall
                    appoint a merchant banker and make a public announcement within
                    two working days from the date of the approval of Board of Directors
                    or of the shareholders, as the case may be.

          (ii)      The disclosures in the public announcement shall be made in
                     accordance with Schedule II.

          (iii)     The book building process shall commence within seven working days
                     from the date of the public announcement.

          (iv)      The public announcement shall contain the detailed methodology
                     pertaining to intimation required to be made prior to the opening of the
                     buy-back offer as specified in Schedule- VI.

         Offer procedure:


 22B. (i)           The company making the buy-back offer shall disclose the maximum
                    buy-back price, being the upper end of the price range, as approved by
                    the Board of Directors of the company or its shareholders, as the case

                           (b)        The amount to be deposited in the escrow account shall be determined with
                                      reference to the maximum price as specified in the public announcement.
                                      Explanation: The cash component of the escrow account may be maintained
                                      in terms of the Explanation to clause (c) of sub-regulation (xi) of regulation
                                      9.
             (iv) A copy of the public announcement shall be filed with the Board within two days of such
                   announcement along with the fees as specified in Schedule V.
             (v) The public announcement shall also contain the detailed methodology of the book-building
                   process, the manner of acceptance, the format of acceptance to be sent by the securities
                   holders pursuant to the public announcement and the details of bidding centres.
             (vi) The book-building process shall be made through an electronically linked transparent facility.
            (vii) The number of bidding centers shall not be less than thirty and there shall be at least one
                   electronically linked computer terminal at all the bidding centers.
            (viii) The offer for buy-back shall remain open to the securities holders for a period not less than
                   fifteen days and not exceeding thirty days.
             (ix) The merchant banker and the company shall determine the buy-back price based on the
                   acceptances received.
             (x) The final buy-back price, which shall be the highest price accepted shall be paid to all holders
                   whose shares or other specified securities have been accepted for buy-back.
             (xi) The provisions of sub-regulation (ii) of regulation 10 pertaining to verification of acceptances
                   and the provisions of regulation 10 pertaining to opening of special account and payment of
                   consideration shall be applicable mutatis mutandis.”
75 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,

2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                                     Page 31 of 51
                 may be and the book value of the shares or other specified securities of
                 the company.


         (ii)    The company shall publish the offer opening announcement on the
                  date of commencement of the buy-back.


         (iii)   In case of frequently traded securities, the lower end of the price range
                  shall not be less than the higher of:


                     a) the closing price of the securities of the company on the date of
                         the Notice as specified in Schedule- VI; and


                     b) the volume weighted average market price of the shares or
                         other specified securities of the company in the fifteen trading
                         days prior to the date of the intimation of the meeting of the
                         Board of Directors approving the buy-back.


         (iv)    In case of infrequently traded securities, the lower end of the price
                  range shall not be less than the price of the securities of the company
                  determined on the basis of the report of a registered valuer.


         (v)     The buy-back price shall depend upon the price discovered through the
                  bids received from the shareholders within the price range.

         76[(vi) The effect on the price of the equity shares of the company due to

         material price movement and confirmation of reported event or information
         may be excluded as per the framework specified under sub-regulation (11) of
         regulation 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
         Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for calculation
         of the lower end of the price range under this regulation.]


     Payment to holders of shares or other specified securities:


     22C. (i) The payment of consideration to holders of shares or other specified


76 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 18.05.2024.

                                                                                  Page 32 of 51
                securities shall be completed within a period of five working days from the
                date of closure of the buy-back offer.


   Retail and Promoter participation:

   22D.        (i) Retail investors shall have the option to bid at the buy-back price.

               Explanation: For the purpose of this Chapter, ‘retail investors’ means
               securities holders who hold shares or other specified securities of the
               company up to two lakh rupees in value calculated on the basis of the
               closing price as on the identified date as specified in Schedule- VI.

               (ii) Promoters along with their associates shall not be permitted to
               participate in buy-back through book building.

   Methodology of acceptance of bids:

22E.     (i) The buy-back offer shall be kept open for a minimum of two trading days.

        (ii) Securities holders can submit bids for any number of shares or other
             specified securities of the company, not exceeding the total number of
             securities in the relevant category, at a price within the price range.

        (iii) In the event that, the bids are more than the buy-back size:
                  a) The price at which hundred per cent of the buy-back size is reached
                     shall be the buy-back price; and
                  b) shares or other specified securities tendered at or below the buy-
                     back price shall be accepted at the buy-back price and in proportion
                     to the size of the bids received.

         (iv) In the event that the bids are less than the buy-back size; all the shares
              or other specified securities tendered shall be accepted at the highest
              bid price.

         (v)     Once the public announcement is made, the buy-back shall not be
                  withdrawn or terminated and bids once placed shall not be withdrawn.]


   Extinguishment of certificates
       23.      The provisions pertaining to extinguishment of certificates for tender offer
                shall be applicable mutatis mutandis to the buy-back through book
                building.




                                                                                   Page 33 of 51
                                              CHAPTER V
                                       GENERAL OBLIGATIONS



    Obligations of the company for all buy-back procedure:
    24.      (i) The company shall ensure that,—


                 a)      the letter of offer, the public announcement of the offer or any
                         other advertisement, circular, brochure, publicity material shall
                         contain true, factual and material information and shall not
                         contain any misleading information and must state that the
                         directors of the company accept the responsibility for the
                         information contained in such documents;


                 b)      the company shall not issue any shares or other specified
                         securities including by way of bonus till the date of expiry of
                         buyback period for the offer made under these regulations
                         77[,   except in discharge of subsisting obligations through
                         conversion of warrants, stock option schemes, sweat equity or
                         conversion of preference shares or debentures into equity
                         shares] 78[:]

                                  79[Provided    that the relevant details and the potential
                         impact of such subsisting obligations, if any, shall be disclosed
                         in the public announcement.]


                 c)      the company shall pay the consideration only by way of cash;


                 d)      the company shall not withdraw the offer to buy-back after the
                         draft letter of offer is filed with the Board or public
                         announcement of the offer to buy-back is made;


77 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024.
78 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024 for the symbol “;”.
79 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)

Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024.

                                                                                             Page 34 of 51
               e)      the promoter(s) or his/their associates shall not deal in the
                       shares or other specified securities of the company in the stock
                       exchange or off-market, including inter- se transfer of shares
                       among the promoters during the period from the date of passing
                       the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution,
                       as the case may be, till the closing of the offer.

               f)      the company shall not raise further capital for a period of one year
                       from the expiry of buyback period, except in discharge of its
                       subsisting obligations.


       (ii)    No public announcement of buy-back shall be made during the
       pendency of any scheme of amalgamation or compromise or arrangement
       pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act.


       (iii)   The company shall nominate a compliance officer and investors
       service centre for compliance with the buy-back regulations and to redress the
       grievances of the investors.


       (iv)    The particulars of the security certificates extinguished and destroyed
       shall be furnished by the company to the stock exchanges where the shares
       or other specified securities of the company are listed within 80[seven working
       days] of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.


       (v)     The company shall not buy-back the locked-in shares or other specified
       securities and non-transferable shares or other specified securities till the
       pendency of the lock-in or till the shares or other specified securities become
       transferable.


       (vi)    The company shall within 81[two working days] of expiry of buy-back

80
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “seven days”.
81
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023 for the words “two days”.

                                                                                    Page 35 of 51
   period issue a public advertisement in a national daily, inter alia, disclosing:


             a)       number of shares or other specified securities bought;
             b)       price at which the shares or other specified securities bought;
             c)       total amount invested in the buy-back;
             d)       details of the securities holders     from whom shares or other
                      specified securities exceeding one per cent of total shares or
                      other specified securities were bought back; and
             e)       the consequent changes in the capital structure and the
                      shareholding pattern after and before the buy-back.


   (vii)     The company in addition to these regulations shall comply with the
   provisions of buy-back as contained in the Companies Act and other applicable
   laws.


Obligations of the merchant banker:
25.        The merchant banker shall ensure that—
             (i)      the company is able to implement the offer;
             (ii)     the provision relating to escrow account has been complied with;
             (iii)    firm arrangements for monies for payment to fulfill the
                      obligations under the offer are in place;
             (iv)     the public announcement of buy-back is made in terms of the
                      regulations;
             (v)      the letter of offer has been filed in terms of the regulations;
             (vi)     a due diligence certificate along with the draft letter of offer has
                      been furnished to the Board;
             (vii)    the contents of the public announcement of offer as well as the
                      letter of offer are true, fair and adequate and quoting the source
                      wherever necessary;
             (viii)   due compliance of sections 68, 69 and 70 of the Companies Act
                      and any other laws or rules as may be applicable in this regard
                      has been made;
             (ix)     the bank with whom the escrow or special amount has been
                      deposited releases the balance amount to the company only

                                                                                Page 36 of 51
                           upon fulfillment of all obligations by the company under the
                           regulations;
                 (x)       82[a final report in the electronic mode shall be submitted to the


                            Board within fifteen working days from the date of expiry of the
                            buy-back period.]



                                               83[CHAPTER V-A

          POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS

Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
25A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation
of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified
but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation 84[***] relating to testing
new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of
regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.


(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to
the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including
conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.


Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a
live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models,
etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of
time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as
may be specified by the Board.]
                                                CHAPTER VI
                                              MISCELLANEOUS

     Powers of the Board to issue directions



82   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023. Prior to its substitution, the clause read as under-
“(x) a final report is submitted to the Board in the form specified within fifteen days from the date of expiry of
buyback period.”.
83
   Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
84
   The words “in technological aspects” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021.

                                                                                                   Page 37 of 51
     26.    (i)           The Board may, without prejudice to its right to initiate any other
            enforcement action, including prosecution under section 24 of the Act,
            give such directions in the interest of investors in securities and the
            securities market, as it deems fit, including:
            (a) prohibiting the person concerned from cancelling any of the securities
                    bought back in violation of the provisions of these regulations or the
                    Companies Act;
            (b) directing the person concerned to sell or divest the shares or other
                    specified securities acquired in violation of the provisions of these
                    regulations or any other law or regulations;
            (c) restraining the company from making a further offer for buy-back;


            (ii)          A copy of such direction issued by the Board shall also be
            forwarded to Registrar of Companies.


     Power of the Board to remove difficulties
     27.    In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the
            provisions of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or
            guidelines from time to time.


     Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations.
     28.    (i)           The Board may, in the interest of investors and the securities
            market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these
            regulations except the provisions incorporated from the Companies Act, if
            the Board is satisfied that:

                   (a)    the requirement is procedural in nature; or
                   (b)    the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors;


             (ii)         For seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (i), the company
             shall file 85[a] 86[self-attested] application with the Board, 87[***] giving


85
   Substituted for the word “an” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Attestation of Documents)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 28-11-2024.
86
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Attestation of Documents) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 28-11-2024.
87
   The words “supported by a duly sworn affidavit,” deleted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India

                                                                                           Page 38 of 51
              details and the grounds on which such relaxation has been sought.


              [(iii) 88The company shall along with the application referred to under
              sub-regulation (ii) pay a non-refundable fee of rupees fifty thousand, by
              way of direct credit into the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or
              online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode as
              may be specified by the Board from time to time.]


             (iv)         The Board may after affording reasonable opportunity of being
             heard to the applicant and after considering all the relevant facts and
             circumstances, pass a reasoned order either granting or rejecting the
             relaxation sought as expeditiously as possible.


    Repeal and savings
    29.      (i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities)
             Regulations, 1998, shall stand repealed from the date on which these
             regulations come into force.


             (ii) Notwithstanding such repeal,—
               (a)      anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done
                        or taken including comments on any letter of offer, exemption
                        granted by the Board, fees collected, any adjudication, enquiry or
                        investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the
                        repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to
                        have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of
                        these regulations;
               (b)      the previous operation of the repealed regulations or anything duly
                        done or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or

(Attestation of Documents) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 28-11-2024.
88
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 01.04.2023. Prior to its substitution, clause (iii) read as under-
“(iii)The company shall along with the application referred to under sub-regulation (ii), pay a non-refundable
fee of rupees fifty thousand, by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any
other mode allowed by RBI or by way of a banker’s cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the
Board.”


                                                                                                Page 39 of 51
                liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the repealed
                regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in
                respect of any       violation committed against the repealed
                regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in
                respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty,
                forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if
                the repealed regulations has never been repealed;
      (c)       any buy-back offer for which a public announcement has been
                made under the repealed regulations shall be required to be
                continued and completed under the repealed regulations.


(v)    After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back
            of Securities) Regulations, 1998, any reference thereto in any other
            regulations made, guidelines or circulars issued thereunder by the
            Board shall be deemed to be a reference made to the corresponding
            provisions of these regulations.




                                                                         Page 40 of 51
                                                 SCHEDULE - I
                                            [Regulation 5(iv)(b)]
                                   Contents of the Explanatory Statement


           i)      Date of the Board meeting at which the proposal for buy-back was approved by
                   the Board of Directors of the company;


           ii)     Necessity for the buy-back;


           iii)    Maximum amount required under the buy-back and its percentage of the total
                   paid up capital and free reserves;


           iv)     Maximum price at which the shares or other specified securities are proposed
                   be bought back and the basis of arriving at the buy-back price;
i.

           v)      Maximum number of securities that the company proposes to buy- back;


           vi)     Method to be adopted for buy-back as referred to in sub-regulation (iv) of
                   regulation 4,


           vii)    (a)    the aggregate shareholding of the promoter and of the directors of the
                          promoters, where the promoter is a company and of persons who are in
                          control of the company as on the date of the notice convening the
                          General Meeting or the Meeting of the Board of Directors;


                   (b)    aggregate number of shares or other specified securities purchased or
                          sold by persons including persons mentioned in (a) above from a period
                          of six months preceding the date of the Board Meeting at which the buy-
                          back was approved till the date of notice convening the general meeting;


                   (c)    the maximum and minimum price at which purchases and sales referred
                          to in (b) above were made along with the relevant dates;
     ii.

           viii)   Intention of the promoters and persons in control of the company to tender

                                                                                      Page 41 of 51
             shares or other specified securities for buy-back indicating the number of
             shares or other specified securities, details of acquisition with dates and price;


       ix)   A confirmation that there are no defaults subsisting in repayment of deposits,
             redemption of debentures or preference shares or repayment of term loans to
             any financial institutions or banks;


       x)    A confirmation that the Board of Directors has made a full enquiry into the
             affairs and prospects of the company and that they have formed the opinion-


             a)      that immediately following the date on which the General Meeting or the
                     meeting of the Board of Directors is convened there will be no grounds
                     on which the company could be found unable to pay its debts;


             b)      as regards its prospects for the year immediately following that date that,
                     having regard to their intentions with respect to the management of the
                     company’s business during that year and to the amount and character of
                     the financial resources which will in their view be available to the
                     company during that year, the company will be able to meet its liabilities
                     as and when they fall due and will not be rendered insolvent within a
                     period of one year from that date; and


             c)      in forming their opinion for the above purposes, the directors shall take
                     into account the liabilities as if the company were being wound up under
                     the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or Companies Act or the
                     Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (including prospective and
                     contingent liabilities);
iii.

       xi)   A report addressed to the Board of Directors by the company’s auditors stating
             that-
             a)      they have inquired into the company’s state of affairs;
             b)      the amount of the permissible capital payment for the securities in
                     question is in their view properly determined; and
             c)      the Board of Directors have formed the opinion as specified in clause (x)

                                                                                    Page 42 of 51
              on reasonable grounds and that the company will not, having regard to
              its state of affairs, will not be rendered insolvent within a period of one
              year from that date.
xii)   89[Prior approval obtained from the lenders of the company in case of a breach


       of any covenant with such lender(s).]




89Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                 Page 43 of 51
                                          SCHEDULE - II
                             [Regulation 7(i) and Regulation 22(ii)(b)]
     Disclosures in the Public Announcement for buy-back through tender offer
          90[***]   and from the open market through book building process


Particulars           Content
Public                i)        The Public announcement shall be dated and signed on
Announcement                    behalf of the Board of Directors of the company by its
                                manager or secretary, if any, and by not less than two
                                directors of the company one of whom shall be a managing
                                director where there is one.


                      ii)       A full and complete disclosure of all material facts including
                                the disclosures mentioned in Schedule I shall be made.


                      iii)      91[Disclosures   of the relevant details and the potential
                                impact of subsisting obligations, if any, shall be made.]




90
  The words “and from odd lot holders” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of
Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
91 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)

Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024.

                                                                                           Page 44 of 51
                                          SCHEDULE - III
                                        [Regulation 8(i)(a)]
     Disclosures in the Letter of Offer for buy-back through tender offer 92[***]
Particular     Content
s
Letter of      The letter of offer shall be dated and signed on behalf of the Board of
Offer          Directors of the company by its manager or secretary, if any, and by not
               less than two directors of the company one of whom shall be a managing
               director where there is one. The letter of offer shall, inter-alia, contain the
               following;


               i)          Disclosures as mentioned in Schedule - IV;
               ii)         Disclaimer Clause as may be specified by the Board;
               iii)        Record date and ratio of buy-back as per the entitlement in each
                           category.


               93[Further,     the cover page of the Letter of Offer should explicitly cover
               following details-
                      i.   the entitlement ratio for small and general shareholders;


                     ii.   web-link to website of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent for
                           shareholders to check their entitlement under the buyback.]




92
  The words “and from odd lot holders” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of
Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
93 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)

Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024.

                                                                                           Page 45 of 51
                                SCHEDULE - IV
                             [Regulation 16(iv)(b)]
  Public Announcement for Open Market Buy-Back through Stock Exchange



Particulars    Content
Public         i)     The Public announcement shall be dated and signed on
Announcement          behalf of the Board of Directors of the company by its
                      manager or secretary, if any, and by not less than two
                      directors of the company one of whom shall be a managing
                      director where there is one.


               ii)    A full and complete disclosure of all material facts including
                      the disclosures mentioned in Schedule I.


               iii)   In addition to the disclosures in Schedule A, the following
                      disclosures shall be made:


                      i)     Date of shareholders’ approval for buy-back, if
                             applicable;


                      ii)    Minimum and maximum number of securities that the
                             company proposes to buy-back, sources of funds
                             from which the buy-back would be made and the cost
                             of financing the buy-back;


                      iii)   Proposed time table from opening of offer till the
                             extinguishment of the certificates;


                      iv)    Process and methodology to be adopted for the buy-
                             back;


                      v)     Brief information about the company;


                                                                        Page 46 of 51
Particulars   Content
                   vi)     Audited Financial information for the last 3 years and
                           the lead manager shall ensure that the particulars
                           (audited     statement   and      un-audited     statement)
                           contained therein shall not be more than more than 6
                           months old from the date of the public announcement
                           together with financial ratios as may be specified by
                           the Board;
                           Explanation: Ensure that the un-audited financial
                           results, if any disclosed, should be certified / limited
                           review by statutory auditors.


                   vii)    Details of escrow account opened and the amount
                           deposited therein;


                   viii)   Listing details and stock market data:
                           a)     high, low and average market prices of the
                                  securities of the company proposed to be
                                  bought back, during the preceding three years;
                           b)     monthly high and low prices for the six months
                                  preceding     the       date    of      the   public
                                  announcement;
                           c)     the number of securities traded on the days
                                  when the high and low prices were recorded
                                  on the relevant stock exchanges during the
                                  period stated at (a) and (b) above;
                           d)     the stock market data referred to above shall be
                                  shown separately for periods marked by a
                                  change in capital structure, with such period
                                  commencing from the date the concerned stock
                                  exchange recognises the change in the capital
                                  structure.(e.g. when the securities have become
                                  ex-rights or ex-bonus) ;
                           e)     the market price immediately after the date of

                                                                           Page 47 of 51
Particulars   Content
                                  the resolution of the Board of directors
                                  approving the buy-back; and
                           f)     the volume of securities traded in each month
                                  during the six months preceding the date of the
                                  public announcement along with high, low and
                                  average prices of securities of the company,
                                  details    relating   to   volume   of     business
                                  transacted should also be stated for respective
                                  periods.
                   ix)     Present capital structure (including the number of fully
                           paid and partly paid securities) and shareholding
                           pattern;
                   x)      The capital structure including details of outstanding
                           convertible instruments, if any post buy-back;


                   xi)     Aggregate shareholding of the promoter group and of
                           the directors of the promoters, where the promoter is
                           a company and of persons who are in control of the
                           company;


                   xii)    Aggregate number of shares or other specified
                           securities purchased or sold by persons mentioned in
                           clause xi above during a period of twelve months
                           preceding the date of the public announcement; the
                           maximum and minimum price at which purchases and
                           sales referred to above were made along with the
                           relevant dates;


                   xiii)   Management discussion and analysis on the likely
                           impact of buy-back on the company’s earnings, public
                           holdings, holdings of NRIs/FIIs etc., promoters
                           holdings and any change in management structure;


                                                                           Page 48 of 51
Particulars          Content
                             xiv)     Details of statutory approvals obtained;


                             xv)      Collection and bidding centres;


                             xvi)     Name of compliance officer and details of investors
                                      service centres;


                             xvii)    Such other disclosures as may be specified by the
                                      Board from time to time 94[;]


                             xviii)   95[The   relevant details and the potential impact of
                                      subsisting obligations, if any.]




94 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024 for the symbol “.”.
95 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Second Amendment)

Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 20.11.2024.

                                                                                          Page 49 of 51
                                           SCHEDULE - V
                                                 FEES
                           [Regulation 8(i)(c), 16(iv)(c) and 22(iv)]


Every merchant banker shall while submitting the offer document or a copy of the
public announcement 96[in electronic mode] to the Board, pay fees as set out below:


                   Offer Size                                         Fee (Rupees)
 Less than or equal to rupees ten crore             5,00,000/-
 More than rupees ten crore but less 0.5 per cent of the offer size
 than or equal to rupees one thousand
 crore
 More than rupees one thousand crore                5,00,00,000/- plus 0.125 per cent of the
                                                    portion of offer size in excess of rupees
                                                    one thousand crore


97
     [The fees shall be payable by way of direct credit into the bank account through
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode
as may be specified by the Board from time to time.]




96
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.
97
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 01.04.2023. Prior to its substitution, it read as under-
“The fees shall be payable by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other
mode allowed by RBI or by a demand draft in favour of Securities and Exchange Board of India at Mumbai.”

                                                                                             Page 50 of 51
                                        98[SCHEDULE – VI


       METHODLOGY TO BE ADOPTED PRIOR TO THE OPENING OF AN OFFER
                                         [Regulation 22A]


     I.    An intimation (“Notice”) shall be sent to the stock exchanges before 5 pm on
           the day immediately preceding the date of the commencement of the buy-
           back.


     II.   An intimation shall be sent to the shareholders two working days preceding
           the date of the Notice (“identified date”) through email and SMS as per the
           records of the depositories.]




                                                                                                sd/-
                                                                   AJAY TYAGI
                                                                    CHAIRMAN
                                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA




98
 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) (Amendment) Regulations,
2023 w.e.f. 09.03.2023.

                                                                                           Page 51 of 51
