                                   THE GAZETTE OF INDIA

                                       EXTRAORDINARY

                                     PART III - SECTION 4

                                 PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

                              NEW DELHI, SEPTEMBER 11, 2018


                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

                                         NOTIFICATION

                                Mumbai, the 11th September, 2018


     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUE OF CAPITAL AND
             DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2018


No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/31. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes
the following regulations, namely:


                                 CHAPTER I - PRELIMINARY


Short title and commencement
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018.


(2) They shall come into force on the sixtieth day from the date of its publication in the Official
Gazette.


Definitions
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 [15 of 1992];




                                                  1
    (b) “advertisement” includes notices, brochures, pamphlets, show cards, catalogues, hoardings,
           placards, posters, insertions in newspaper, pictures and films in any print media or electronic
           media, radio, television programme;
    (c) “anchor investor" means a qualified institutional buyer who makes an application for a value of
           at least ten crore rupees in a public issue on the main board made through the book building
           process in accordance with these regulations or makes an application for a value of at least two
           crore rupees for an issue made in accordance with Chapter IX of these regulations;
    (d) “application supported by blocked amount (ASBA)” means an application for subscribing to
           a public issue or rights issue, along with an authorisation to self-certified syndicate bank to
           block the application money in a bank account;
1
    [(e) “associate” shall mean a person or any entity which is an associate under sub-section (6) of
           section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 or under the applicable accounting standards;]
        (f) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under the Act;
        (g) “book building” means a process undertaken to elicit demand and to assess the price for
           determination of the quantum or value or coupon of specified securities or Indian Depository
           Receipts, as the case may be, in accordance with these regulations;
        (h) “composite issue” means an issue of specified securities by a listed issuer on public-cum-
           rights basis, wherein the allotment in both public issue and rights issue is proposed to be
           made simultaneously;
        (i) “control” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities and Exchange
           Board of India (Substantial Acquisitions of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
        (j) “convertible debt instrument” means an instrument which creates or acknowledges
           indebtedness and is convertible into equity shares of the issuer at a later date at or without
           the option of the holder of the instrument, whether constituting a charge on the assets of the
           issuer or not;
        (k) “convertible security” means a security which is convertible into or exchangeable with
           equity shares of the issuer at a later date, with or without the option of the holder of such
           security and includes convertible debt instrument and convertible preference shares;




    1
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
    (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, it read as under,-

             “(e) “associate” means a person which is an associate of the issuer and as defined under the Companies Act,
             2013;”



                                                             2
        (l) “designated stock exchange” means a recognised stock exchange having nationwide trading
           terminals chosen by the issuer on which securities of an issuer are listed or proposed to be
           listed for the purpose of a particular issue of specified securities under these regulations:
           Provided that, the issuer may choose a different recognised stock exchange as a designated
           stock exchange for any subsequent issue of specified securities;
        (m) “draft letter of offer” means the draft letter of offer filed with the [stock exchange(s)]2 in
           relation to a rights issue under these regulations;
        (n) “draft offer document” means the draft offer document filed with the Board in relation to a
           public issue under these regulations;
        (o) “employee” means a permanent employee, working in India or outside India, of the issuer or
           of the promoters or subsidiary company of the issuer, or a director of the issuer, whether
           whole-time or not and does not include (i) promoters, (ii) a person belonging to the promoter
           group; or (iii) a director who either himself/herself or through their relatives or through any
           body corporate, directly or indirectly, holds more than ten per cent. of the outstanding equity
           shares of the issuer;
           Provided that for the purposes of stock option schemes, employee shall have the same
           meaning as assigned to under the 3[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based
           Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021];
4
    [(oa) “financial year” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under sub-section (41) of
             section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;]
        (p) “fugitive economic offender” shall mean an individual who is declared a fugitive economic
           offender under section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018 (17 of 2018);
        (q) “further public offer” means an offer of specified securities by a listed issuer to the public
           for subscription and includes an offer for sale of specified securities to the public by any
           existing holders of such specified securities in a listed issuer;
        (r) “general corporate purposes” include such identified purposes for which no specific amount
           is allocated or any amount so specified towards general corporate purpose or any such




    2
      Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.
    08.03.2025 for the word “Board”.
    3
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
    Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023 for the words and symbols “Securities and Exchange Board of India
    (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014”.
    4
       Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
    (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                            3
        purpose by whatever name called, in the draft offer document, draft letter of offer, 5[the
        offer document, or the letter of offer:]
        Provided that any issue related expenses shall not be considered as a part of general
        corporate purpose merely because no specific amount has been allocated for such expenses
        in the draft offer document, draft letter of offer, 6[the offer document, or the letter of offer;]
    (s) “green shoe option” means an option of allotting equity shares in excess of the equity shares
        offered in the public issue as a post-listing price stabilizing mechanism;
    (t) "group companies", shall include such companies (other than promoter(s) and
        subsidiary/subsidiaries) with which there were related party transactions, during the period
        for which financial information is disclosed, as covered under the applicable accounting
        standards, and also other companies as considered material by the board of the issuer;
    (u) “housing finance company” means a deposit taking housing finance company registered with
        the National Housing Bank for carrying on the business of housing finance;
    (v) “infrastructure sector” shall include the following facilities/services:
          i) transportation (including inter modal transportation), including the following:
              A) roads, national highways, state highways, major district roads, other district roads and
                  village roads, including toll roads, bridges, highways, road transport providers and
                  other road-related services;
              B) rail system, rail transport providers, metro rail roads and other railway related
                  services;
              C) ports (including minor ports and harbours), inland waterways, coastal shipping
                  including shipping lines and other port related services;
              D) aviation, including airports, heliports, airlines and other airport related services;
              E) logistics services;
          ii) agriculture, including the following:
              A) infrastructure related to storage facilities;
              B) construction relating to projects involving agro-processing and supply of inputs to
                  agriculture;
              C) construction for preservation and storage of processed agro-products, perishable
                  goods such as fruits, vegetables and flowers including testing facilities for quality;
          iii)water management, including the following:



5
  Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbol “or the offer document:”.
6
  Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbol ”or the offer document;”.

                                                       4
       A) water supply or distribution;
       B) irrigation;
       C) water treatment, etc.
iv) telecommunication, including the following:
       A) basic or cellular, including radio paging;
       B) domestic satellite service (i.e., satellite owned and operated by an Indian company for
          providing telecommunication service);
       C) network of trunking, broadband network and internet services;
v) industrial, commercial and social development and maintenance, including the following:
       A) real estate development, including an industrial park or special economic zone;
       B) tourism, including hotels, convention centres and entertainment centres;
       C) public markets and buildings, trade fair, convention, exhibition, cultural centres,
          sports and recreation infrastructure, public gardens and parks;
       D) construction of educational institutions and hospitals;
       E) other urban development, including solid waste management systems, sanitation and
          sewerage systems, etc.;
vi) power, including the following:
       A) generation of power through thermal, hydro, nuclear, fossil fuel, wind and other
          renewable sources;
       B) transmission, distribution or trading of power by laying a network of new
          transmission or distribution lines;
vii)      petroleum and natural gas, including the following:
       A) exploration and production;
       B) import terminals;
       C) liquefaction and re-gasification;
       D) storage terminals;
       E) transmission networks and distribution networks including city gas infrastructure;
viii)     housing, including the following:
       A) urban and rural housing including public or mass housing, slum rehabilitation etc;
       B) other allied activities such as drainage, lighting, laying of roads, sanitation facilities
          etc.;
ix) services provided by recognised stock exchanges and registered depositories, in relation to
   securities;
x) other miscellaneous facilities or services, including the following:
       A) mining and related activities;

                                                5
               B) technology related infrastructure;
               C) manufacturing of components and materials or any other utilities or facilities required
                  by the infrastructure sector like energy saving devices and metering devices, etc.;
               D) environment related infrastructure;
               E) disaster management services;
               F) preservation of monuments and icons;
               G) emergency services (including medical, police, fire, and rescue);
         xi)such other facility or service which, in the opinion of the board, constitutes infrastructure
            sector;
    (w) “initial public offer” means an offer of specified securities by an unlisted issuer to the public
       for subscription and includes an offer for sale of specified securities to the public by any
       existing holders of such specified securities in an unlisted issuer;
    (x) 7[“innovators growth platform” means the trading platform for listing and trading of
       specified securities of issuers that comply with the eligibility criteria specified in regulation
       283;]
    (y) “institutional investor” means (i) qualified institutional buyer; or (ii) family trust or
       intermediaries registered with the Board, with net worth of more than five hundred crore
       rupees, as per the last audited financial statements, for the purposes of listing and/or trading
       on 8[innovators growth platform] in terms of Chapter X;
    (z) “issue size” includes offer through offer document and promoters’ contribution brought in as
       part of the issue;
    (aa) “issuer” means a company or a body corporate authorized to issue specified securities
       under the relevant laws and whose specified securities are being issued and/or offered for
       sale in accordance with these regulations;
    (bb) 9[“key managerial personnel” shall mean the key managerial personnel as defined in sub-
       section (51) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013;]




7
  Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “"institutional trading platform"
means the trading platform for listing and trading of specified securities of issuers that comply with the eligibility
criteria specified in regulation 288;”
8
  Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “institutional trading platform”.
9
 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w-e-f 31.01.2023. Prior to its substitution, it read as ““key managerial personnel”
means the officers or personnel of the issuer who are members of its core management team (excluding board of
directors) and includes members of the management one level below the executive directors of the issuer, functional
heads and ‘key managerial personnel’ as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other person whom the issuer
may declare as a key managerial personnel;”

                                                          6
(cc) “lead manager” means a merchant banker registered with the Board and appointed by the
   issuer to manage the issue and in case of a book built issue, the lead manager(s) appointed
   by the issuer shall act as the book running lead manager(s) for the purposes of book
   building;
(dd) “listed issuer” means an issuer whose equity shares are listed on a recognised stock
   exchange having nationwide trading terminals;
(ee) “main board” means a recognised stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals,
   other than SME exchange;
(ff) “net offer” means an offer of specified securities to the public but does not include
   reservations and promoters’ contribution brought in as part of the issue;
(gg) “net tangible assets” mean the sum of all net assets of the issuer, excluding intangible
   assets as defined in Accounting Standard 26 (AS 26) or Indian Accounting Standard (Ind
   AS) 38, as applicable, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India;
(hh) “net worth” means the aggregate value of the paid-up share capital and all reserves created
   out of the profits and securities premium account and debit or credit balance of profit and
   loss account, after deducting the aggregate value of the accumulated losses, deferred
   expenditure and miscellaneous expenditure not written off, as per the audited balance sheet,
   but does not include reserves created out of revaluation of assets, write-back of depreciation
   and amalgamation;
(ii) “nominated investor” means a qualified institutional buyer or private equity fund, who
   enters into an agreement with the lead manager(s) to subscribe to an issue, made in
   accordance with Chapter IX, in case of under-subscription or to receive or deliver the
   specified securities in the market-making process in such an issue;
   Explanation: “private equity fund” means a fund registered with any regulatory authority or
   a fund established by any person registered with any regulatory authority;
(jj) “non-institutional investor” means an investor other than a retail individual investor and
   qualified institutional buyer;
(kk) “offer document” means a red herring prospectus, prospectus or shelf prospectus, as
   applicable, referred to under the Companies Act, 2013, in case of a public issue, and a letter
   of offer in case of a rights issue;
(ll) “offer through offer document” means net offer and reservations;




                                              7
     (mm)“persons acting in concert” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under 10[***] the
        Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
        Regulations, 2011;
     (nn) “preferential issue” means an issue of specified securities by a listed issuer to any select
        person or group of persons on a private placement basis in accordance with Chapter V of
        these regulations and does not include an offer of specified securities made through
        employee stock option scheme, employee stock purchase scheme or an issue of sweat equity
        shares or depository receipts issued in a country outside India or foreign securities;
     (oo) “promoter” shall include a person:
          i) who has been named as such in a draft offer document or offer document or is
              identified by the issuer in the annual return referred to in section 92 of the Companies
              Act, 2013; or
          ii) who has control over the affairs of the issuer, directly or indirectly whether as a
              shareholder, director or otherwise; or
          iii) in accordance with whose advice, directions or instructions the board of directors of
              the issuer is accustomed to act:
              Provided that nothing in sub-clause (iii) shall apply to a person who is acting merely in
              a professional capacity;
              Provided further that a financial institution, scheduled commercial bank, [foreign
              portfolio investor other than individuals, corporate bodies and family offices]11, mutual
              fund, venture capital fund, alternative investment fund, foreign venture capital
              investor, insurance company registered with the Insurance Regulatory and
              Development Authority of India or any other category as specified by the Board from
              time to time, shall not be deemed to be a promoter merely by virtue of the fact that
              twenty per cent. or more of the equity share capital of the issuer is held by such person
              unless such person satisfy other requirements prescribed under these regulations;
     (pp) “promoter group” includes:
        i) the promoter;
        ii) an immediate relative of the promoter (i.e. any spouse of that person, or any parent,
            brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse); and


10
  The words and symbols “regulation 2(1)(q) of” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
11
  Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f. 23.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “foreign portfolio investor other than Category III foreign
portfolio investor.”

                                                         8
      iii) in case promoter is a body corporate:
                  A)       a subsidiary or holding company of such body corporate;
                  B)       any body corporate in which the promoter holds twenty per cent. or more of
                           the equity share capital; and/or any body corporate which holds twenty per
                           cent. or more of the equity share capital of the promoter;
                           12
                  C)            [***]
      iv) in case the promoter is an individual:
                  A)       any body corporate in which twenty per cent. or more of the equity share
                           capital is held by the promoter or an immediate relative of the promoter or a
                           firm or Hindu Undivided Family in which the promoter or any one or more
                           of their relative is a member;
                  B)       any body corporate in which a body corporate as provided in (A) above
                           holds twenty per cent. or more, of the equity share capital; and
                  C)       any Hindu Undivided Family or firm in which the aggregate share of the
                           promoter and their relatives is equal to or more than twenty per cent. of the
                           total capital;
      v) all persons whose shareholding is aggregated under the heading "shareholding of the
           promoter group":
                  Provided that a financial institution, scheduled bank, [foreign portfolio investor
                  other than individuals, corporate bodies and family offices]13, mutual fund, venture
                  capital fund, alternative investment fund, foreign venture capital investor,
                  insurance company registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development
                  Authority of India or any other category as specified by the Board from time to
                  time, shall not be deemed to be promoter group merely by virtue of the fact that
                  twenty per cent. or more of the equity share capital of the promoter is held by
                  such person or entity:
                  Provided further that such financial institution, scheduled bank, [foreign portfolio
                  investor other than individuals, corporate bodies and family offices]14, mutual


12
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the omission, it read as under –
     “C) any body corporate in which a group of individuals or companies or combinations thereof acting in concert,
     which hold twenty per cent. or more of the equity share capital in that body corporate and such group of
     individuals or companies or combinations thereof also holds twenty per cent. or more of the equity share capital of
     the issuer and are also acting in concert; and”
13
   Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.23.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “foreign portfolio investor other than Category III foreign
portfolio investor.”
14
   ibid

                                                           9
                  fund, venture capital fund, alternative investment fund and foreign venture capital
                  investor insurance company registered with the Insurance Regulatory and
                  Development Authority of India or any other category as specified by the Board
                  from time to time shall be treated as promoter group for the subsidiaries or
                  companies promoted by them or for the mutual fund sponsored by them;
     (qq) “public financial institution” means a public financial institution as defined under the
        Companies Act, 2013;
     (rr) “public issue” means an initial public offer or a further public offer;
     (ss) “qualified institutional buyer” means:
          (i)     a mutual fund, venture capital fund, alternative investment fund and foreign
                  venture capital investor registered with the Board;
          (ii)     [foreign portfolio investor other than individuals, corporate bodies and family
                  offices]15;
          (iii)   a public financial institution;
          (iv)    a scheduled commercial bank;
          (v)     a multilateral and bilateral development financial institution;
          (vi)    a state industrial development corporation;
          (vii)   an insurance company registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development
                  Authority of India;
          (viii) a provident fund with minimum corpus of twenty five crore rupees;
          (ix)    a pension fund with minimum corpus of twenty five crore rupees 16[registered with
                  the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority established under sub-
                  section (1) of section 3 of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development
                  Authority Act, 2013];
          (x)     National Investment Fund set up by resolution no. F. No. 2/3/2005-DDII dated
                  November 23, 2005 of the Government of India published in the Gazette of India;
          (xi)    insurance funds set up and managed by army, navy or air force of the Union of
                  India; and
          (xii)   insurance funds set up and managed by the Department of Posts, India; and
          (xiii) systemically important non-banking financial companies.



15
   Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.23.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “foreign portfolio investor other than Category III foreign
portfolio investor, registered with the Board.”
16
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.

                                                        10
      (tt) “qualified institutions placement” means issue of eligible securities by a listed issuer to
         qualified institutional buyers on a private placement basis and includes an offer for sale of
         specified securities by the promoters and/or promoter group on a private placement basis, in
         terms of these regulations;
      (uu) “relative” means a relative as defined under the Companies Act, 2013.
      (vv) “retail individual investor” means an individual investor who applies or bids for specified
         securities for a value of not more than two lakhs rupees;
      (ww) “retail individual shareholder” means a shareholder who applies or bids for specified
         securities for a value of not more than two lakhs rupees;
      (xx) “rights issue” means an offer of specified securities by a listed issuer to the shareholders of
         the issuer as on the record date fixed for the said purpose;
      (yy) “schedule” means schedule annexed to these regulations;
      (zz) “scheduled commercial bank” means scheduled commercial banks as included in the
         second schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934;
      (aaa) “self-certified syndicate bank” means a banker to an issue registered with the Board,
         which offers the facility of ASBA;
      (bbb) “selling shareholder(s)” means any shareholder of the issuer who is offering for sale the
         specified securities in a public issue in accordance with these Regulations;
17
     [(bbbb) “senior management” shall mean the officers and personnel of the issuer who are
          members of its core management team, excluding the Board of Directors, and shall also
          comprise all the members of the management one level below the Chief Executive Officer
          or Managing Director or Whole Time Director or Manager (including Chief Executive
          Officer and Manager, in case they are not part of the Board of Directors) and shall
          specifically include the functional heads, by whatever name called and the Company
          Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer.]
      (ccc) “securities laws” means the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the
         Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules and regulations made thereunder and the general or
         special orders, guidelines or circulars made or issued by the Board thereunder and the
         provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 or any previous company law and any subordinate
         legislation framed thereunder, which are administered by the Board ;
      (ddd) “SME exchange” means a trading platform of a recognised stock exchange having
         nationwide trading terminals permitted by the Board to list the specified securities issued in



 17
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w-e-f 31.01.2023.

                                                     11
         accordance with Chapter IX and includes a stock exchange granted recognition for this
         purpose but does not include the Main Board;
      (eee) “specified securities" means equity shares and convertible securities;
18
     [(eeea) “SR equity shares” means the equity shares of an issuer having superior voting rights
           compared to all other equity shares issued by that issuer.]
      (fff) “stabilising agent” means a merchant banker who is responsible for stabilising the price of
         equity shares under a green shoe option, in terms of these regulations;
      (ggg) “stock exchange” means any recognised stock exchange having nationwide trading
         terminals chosen by the issuer on which securities of an issuer are listed or proposed to be
         listed for the purpose of a particular issue of specified securities under these regulations,
         other than an SME exchange;
      (hhh) “syndicate member” means an intermediary registered with the Board and who is
         permitted to accept bids, applications and place orders with respect to the issue and carry on
         the activity as an underwriter;
      (iii)“systemically important non-banking financial companies” means a non-banking financial
         company registered with the Reserve Bank of India and recognised as systemically
         important non-banking financial company by the Reserve Bank of India;
      (jjj)“unlisted issuer” means an issuer which is not a listed issuer;
      (kkk)        “valuer” means a person who is registered under section 247 of the Companies
         Act, 2013 and the relevant rules framed thereunder or as specified by the Board;
      (lll) “19[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower]” means a person or an issuer who or which is
         categorized as a 20[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower] by any bank or financial
         institution (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013) or consortium thereof, in accordance
         with the guidelines on 21[wilful defaulters or fraudulent borrowers] issued by the Reserve
         Bank of India;
      (mmm)        “working day” means all days on which commercial banks in the city as specified
         in the offer document are open for business;
         Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, in respect of -
         (a) announcement of price band; and


 18
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
 w.e.f.29.07.2019.
 19
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
 20
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
 21
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulters”.

                                                      12
        (b) bid/issue period,
        working day shall mean all days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays, on
        which commercial banks in the city as notified in the offer document are open for business;
        (c) the time period between the bid/ issue closing date and the listing of the specified
        securities on the stock exchanges, working day shall mean all trading days of the stock
        exchanges, excluding Sundays and bank holidays, as per circulars issued by the Board.


(2)          All other words and expressions used but not defined in these regulations, but defined in
the Act or the Companies Act, 2013, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the
Depositories Act, 1996 and/or the rules and regulations made thereunder shall have the same
meaning as respectively assigned to them in such statutes or rules or regulations or any statutory
modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be.


Applicability of the regulations
3. Unless otherwise provided, these regulations shall apply to the following:
      (a) an initial public offer by an unlisted issuer;
      (b) a rights issue by a listed issuer; 22[***]
      (c) a further public offer by a listed issuer;
      (d) a preferential issue by a listed issuer;
      (e) a qualified institutions placement by a listed issuer;
      (f) an initial public offer of Indian depository receipts;
      (g) a rights issue of Indian depository receipts;
      (h) an initial public offer by a small and medium enterprise;
      (i) a listing on the 23[innovators growth platform] through an issue or without an issue; and
      (j) a bonus issue by a listed issuer.
24
     [***]




22
   The words and symbol “where the aggregate value of the issue is fifty crore rupees or more;” omitted by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
23
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “institutional trading platform”.
24
   Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.
08.04.2025. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under,-

             “Provided that in case of rights issue of size less than fifty crores rupees, the issuer shall prepare the letter of
             offer in accordance with requirements as specified in these regulations and file the same with the Board for
             information and dissemination on the Board’s website.”.

                                                                13
Provided further that these regulations shall not apply to issue of securities under clause (b), (d)
and (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 9 of Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.


                  CHAPTER II - INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER ON MAIN BOARD


PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS


Reference date
4. Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an issuer making an initial public offer of specified
securities shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing of the draft offer
                                                                     25
document with the Board and also as on the date of                        [filing] the offer document with the
Registrar of Companies.


Entities not eligible to make an initial public offer
5. (1) An issuer shall not be eligible to make an initial public offer -
     (a) if the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors or selling shareholders are
        debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board.
     (b) if any of the promoters or directors of the issuer is a promoter or director of any other
        company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board.
     (c) if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a 26[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
        borrower.]
     (d) if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender.
Explanation: The restrictions under (a) and (b) above shall not apply to the persons or entities
mentioned therein, who were debarred in the past by the Board and the period of debarment is
already over as on the date of filing of the draft offer document with the Board.
(2) An issuer shall not be eligible to make an initial public offer if there are any outstanding
convertible securities or any other right which would entitle any person with any option to receive
equity shares of the issuer:
Provided that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply to:




25
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Seventh
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
26
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter.”.

                                                        14
       (a) outstanding options granted to employees, whether currently an employee or not, pursuant
          to an employee stock option scheme in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013, the
          relevant Guidance Note or accounting standards, if any, issued by the Institute of
          Chartered Accountants of India or pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013, in this regard;
 27
      [(b) outstanding stock appreciation rights granted to employees pursuant to a stock appreciation
          right scheme, which are fully exercised for equity shares prior to the filing of the red
          herring prospectus (in case of book-built issues) or the prospectus (in case of fixed price
          issues), as the case may be, disclosures regarding such stock appreciation rights and the
          scheme and the total number of equity shares resulting from the exercise of such rights are
          made in the draft offer document and offer document.]
28
     [(c)] fully paid-up outstanding convertible securities which are required to be converted on or
          before the date of filing of the red herring prospectus (in case of book-built issues) or the
          prospectus (in case of fixed price issues), as the case may be.




Eligibility requirements for an initial public offer
6. (1) An issuer shall be eligible to make an initial public offer only if:
     a)   it has net tangible assets of at least three crore rupees, calculated on a restated and
          consolidated basis, in each of the preceding three full years (of twelve months each), of
          which not more than fifty per cent. are held in monetary assets:
          Provided that if more than fifty per cent. of the net tangible assets are held in monetary
          assets, the issuer has utilised or made firm commitments to utilise such excess monetary
          assets in its business or project;
          Provided further that the limit of fifty per cent. on monetary assets shall not be applicable
          in case the initial public offer is made entirely through an offer for sale.
     b)   it has an average operating profit of at least fifteen crore rupees, calculated on a restated
          and consolidated basis, during the preceding three years (of twelve months each), with
          operating profit in each of these preceding three years;
     c)   it has a net worth of at least one crore rupees in each of the preceding three full years (of
          twelve months each), calculated on a restated and consolidated basis;




27
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
28
   Renumbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.08.03.2025. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(b)”.

                                                     15
     d)    if it has changed its name within the last one year, at least fifty per cent. of the revenue,
           calculated on a restated and consolidated basis, for the preceding one full year has been
           earned by it from the activity indicated by its new name.
(2)       An issuer not satisfying the condition stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible to
          make an initial public offer only if the issue is made through the book-building process and
          the issuer undertakes to allot at least seventy five per cent. of the net offer to qualified
          institutional buyers and to refund the full subscription money if it fails to do so.
29
     [(3) If an issuer has issued SR equity shares to its promoters/ founders, the said issuer shall be
          allowed to do an initial public offer of only ordinary shares for listing on the Main Board
          subject to compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and these clauses -
                            i.      the issuer shall be intensive in the use of technology, information
                                    technology, intellectual property, data analytics, bio-technology or
                                    nano-technology to provide products, services or business platforms
                                    with substantial value addition.
                           30
                                [ii. the net worth of the SR shareholder, as determined by a Registered
                                   Valuer, shall not be more than rupees one thousand crore.
                                   Explanation: While determining the individual net worth of the SR
                                   shareholder, his investment/ shareholding in other listed companies
                                   shall be considered but not that of his shareholding in the issuer
                                   company.]
                             iii. The SR shares were issued only to the promoters/ founders who hold
                                   an executive position in the issuer company;
                            iv. The issue of SR equity shares had been authorized by a special
                                    resolution passed at a general meeting of the shareholders of the issuer,
                                    where the notice calling for such general meeting specifically provided
                                    for -
                                       a.    the size of issue of SR equity shares,
                                       b.    ratio of voting rights of SR equity shares vis-à-vis the
                                              ordinary shares,


29
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.
30
   Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2021
w.e.f. 26.10.2021. Prior to its substitution, clause ii. and the Explanation read as follows:
                “ii. the SR shareholder shall not be part of the promoter group whose collective net worth is more than
                rupees 500 crores:
                Explanation: While determining the collective net worth, the investment of SR shareholder in the
                shares of the issuer company shall not be considered.”

                                                         16
                                      c.     rights as to differential dividends, if any
                                      d.     sunset provisions, which provide for a time frame for the
                                              validity of such SR equity shares,
                                      e.     matters in respect of which the SR equity shares would have
                                              the same voting right as that of the ordinary shares,
                          31
                               [v. the SR equity shares have been issued prior to the filing of draft red
                                   herring prospectus and held for a period of at least three months prior
                                   to the filing of the red herring prospectus;]
                            vi. The SR equity shares shall have voting rights in the ratio of a
                                   minimum of 2:1 upto a maximum of 10:1 compared to ordinary shares
                                   and such ratio shall be in whole numbers only;
                           vii. The SR equity shares shall have the same face value as the ordinary
                                   shares;
                           viii. The issuer shall only have one class of SR equity shares;
                           ix. The SR equity shares shall be equivalent to ordinary equity shares in
                                   all respects, except for having superior voting rights.]


General conditions
7. (1) An issuer making an initial public offer shall ensure that:
     a) it has made an application to one or more stock exchanges to seek an in-principle approval
        for listing of its specified securities on such stock exchanges and has chosen one of them
        as the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX;
     b) it has entered into an agreement with a depository for dematerialisation of the specified
        securities already issued and proposed to be issued;
     c) all its specified securities held by the promoters are in dematerialised form prior to filing
        of the offer document;
     d) all its existing partly paid-up equity shares have either been fully paid-up or have been
        forfeited;
     e) it has made firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards seventy five
        per cent. of the stated means of finance for a specific project proposed to be funded from




31
  Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2021
w.e.f. 26.10.2021. Prior to its substitution, clause v. read as follows:
              “v. The SR equity shares have been held for a period of atleast 6 months prior to the filing of the red
              herring prospectus;”

                                                         17
          the issue proceeds, excluding the amount to be raised through the proposed public issue or
          through existing identifiable internal accruals.
(2) The amount for general corporate purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft
offer document and the offer document shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount being
raised by the issuer.


Explanation: 32[For the purposes of regulation 6 and regulation 7]:
            (I)    “project” means the object for which monies are proposed to be raised to cover the
                   objects of the issue;
            (II)   In case of an issuer which had been a partnership firm or a limited liability
                   partnership, the track record of operating profit of the partnership firm or the
                   limited liability partnership shall be considered only if the financial statements of
                   the partnership business for the period during which the issuer was a partnership
                   firm or a limited liability partnership, conform to and are revised in the format
                   prescribed for companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and also comply with the
                   following:
                     (a)   adequate disclosures are made in the financial statements as required to be
                           made by the issuer as per schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013;
                     (b)   the financial statements are duly certified by the statutory auditor stating
                           that:
                                (i) the accounts and the disclosures made are in accordance with the
                                     provisions of schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013;
                                (ii) the applicable accounting standards have been followed;
                                (iii) the financial statements present a true and fair view of the firm’s
                                     accounts;
            (III) In case of an issuer formed out of a division of an existing company, the track
                   record of distributable profits of the division spun-off shall be considered only if
                   the requirements regarding financial statements as provided for partnership firms or
                   limited liability partnerships in Explanation (II) are complied with.


33
     [(3) The amount for:



32
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “For the purposes of this regulation”.
33
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                      18
              (i) general corporate purposes, and
              (ii) such objects where the issuer company has not identified acquisition or
                  investment target, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer
                  document and the offer document,

   shall not exceed thirty five per cent. of the amount being raised by the issuer:

   Provided that the amount raised for such objects where the issuer company has not identified
   acquisition or investment target, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer
   document and the offer document, shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount being
   raised by the issuer:

   Provided further that such limits shall not apply if the proposed acquisition or strategic
   investment object has been identified and suitable specific disclosures about such
   acquisitions or investments are made in the draft offer document and the offer document at the
   time of filing of offer documents.]



Additional conditions for an offer for sale
8. Only such fully paid-up equity shares may be offered for sale to the public, which have been
held by the sellers for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of the draft offer document:
Provided that in case the equity shares received on conversion or exchange of fully paid-up
compulsorily convertible securities including depository receipts are being offered for sale, the
holding period of such convertible securities, including depository receipts, as well as that of
resultant equity shares together shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year
period referred in this sub-regulation.
Provided further that such holding period of one year shall be required to be complied with at the
time of filing of the draft offer document.
Explanation: If the equity shares arising out of the conversion or exchange of the fully paid-up
compulsorily convertible securities are being offered for sale, the conversion or exchange should
be completed prior to filing of the offer document (i.e. red herring prospectus in the case of a book
built issue and prospectus in the case of a fixed price issue), provided full disclosures of the terms
of conversion or exchange are made in the draft offer document.
Provided further that the requirement of holding equity shares for a period of one year shall not
apply:




                                                   19
      a) in case of an offer for sale of a government company or statutory authority or corporation or
           any special purpose vehicle set up and controlled by any one or more of them, which is
           engaged in the infrastructure sector;
      b) if the equity shares offered for sale were acquired pursuant to any scheme approved by a High
           Court 34[***] or approved by a tribunal or the Central Government under the sections 230 to
           234 of Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, in lieu of business and invested capital which had
           been in existence for a period of more than one year prior to approval of such scheme;
      c) if the equity shares offered for sale were issued under a bonus issue on securities held for a
           period of at least one year prior to the filing of the draft offer document with the Board and
           further subject to the following:
           (i) such specified securities being issued out of free reserves and share premium existing in
              the books of account as at the end of the financial year preceding the financial year in
              which the draft offer document is filed with the Board; and
           (ii) such equity shares not being issued by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealized
              profits of the issuer.

35
     [Additional conditions for an offer for sale for issues under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6

      8A. For issues where draft offer document is filed under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6 of
      these regulations:
             a.   shares offered for sale to the public by shareholder(s) holding, individually or with
                  persons acting in concert, more than twenty per cent of pre-issue shareholding of the
                  issuer based on fully diluted basis, shall not exceed more than fifty per cent of their
                  pre-issue shareholding on fully diluted basis;
             b.   shares offered for sale to the public by shareholder(s) holding, individually or with
                  persons acting in concert, less than twenty per cent of pre-issue shareholding of the
                  issuer based on fully diluted basis, shall not exceed more than ten per cent of pre-issue
                  shareholding of the issuer on fully diluted basis;
              c. for shareholder(s) holding, individually or with persons acting in concert, more than
                  twenty per cent of pre-issue shareholding of the issuer based on fully diluted basis,
                  provisions of lock-in as specified under regulation 17 of these regulations shall be



      34
         The words, symbol and numbers “under the sections 391 to 394 of Companies Act, 1956,” omitted by the Securities
      and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
      14.1.2022.
      35
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                             20
              applicable, and relaxation from lock-in as provided under clause (c) of regulation 17 of
              these regulations shall not be applicable.]
      36
           [Explanation.- The limits set out in (a) and (b) above shall be calculated with reference to
           the shareholding as on the date of filing of the draft offer document and shall apply
           cumulatively to the total number of shares offered for sale to the public and any secondary
           sale transactions prior to the issue.]


PART II: ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND WARRANTS


Eligibility requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments
9. An issuer shall be eligible to make an initial public offer of convertible debt instruments even
without making a prior public issue of its equity shares and listing thereof.
Provided that it is not in default of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in
respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months.


Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments
10. (1) In addition to other requirements laid down in these regulations, an issuer making an
initial public offer of convertible debt instruments shall also comply with the following
conditions:
(a)   it has obtained credit rating from at least one credit rating agency;
(b)   it has appointed at least one debenture trustee in accordance with the provisions of the
      Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees)
      Regulations, 1993;
(c)   it shall create a debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the
      Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder;
(d)   if the issuer proposes to create a charge or security on its assets in respect of secured
      convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that:
      (i)     such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times;
      (ii)    such assets are free from any encumbrance;
      (iii) where security is already created on such assets in favour of any existing lender or
              security trustee or the issue of convertible debt instruments is proposed to be secured by
              creation of security on a leasehold land, the consent of such lender or security trustee or



36
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                     21
             lessor for a second or pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted to the
             debenture trustee before the opening of the issue;
      (iv) the security or asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a
             first or prior charge, in case the convertible debt instruments are secured by a second or
             subsequent charge.
(2)       The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments in terms of the offer document.


Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares
11. (1) The issuer shall not convert its optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares
unless the holders of such convertible debt instruments have sent their positive consent to the
issuer and non-receipt of reply to any notice sent by the issuer for this purpose shall not be
construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.
(2) Where the value of the convertible portion of any listed convertible debt instruments issued
by an issuer exceeds ten crore rupees and the issuer has not determined the conversion price of
such convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible
debt instruments shall be given the option of not converting the convertible portion into equity
shares:
Provided that where the upper limit on the price of such convertible debt instruments and
justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of making the issue, it
shall not be necessary to give such option to the holders of the convertible debt instruments for
converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said upper limit.
(3) Where an option is to be given to the holders of the convertible debt instruments in terms of
sub-regulation (2) and if one or more of such holders do not exercise the option to convert the
instruments into equity share capital at a price determined in the general meeting of the
shareholders, the issuer shall redeem that part of the instruments within one month from the last
date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value.
(4) The provision of sub-regulation (2) shall not apply if such redemption is as per the disclosures
made in the offer document.


Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing
12. An issuer shall not issue convertible debt instruments for financing or for providing loans to or
for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the promoter group or group companies:
Provided that an issuer shall be eligible to issue fully convertible debt instruments for these
purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments is less than eighteen months from the
date of issue of such debt instruments.

                                                   22
Issue of warrants
13. An issuer shall be eligible to issue warrants in an initial public offer subject to the following:
a) the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed eighteen months from the date of their allotment
     in the initial public offer;
b) a specified security may have one or more warrants attached to it;
c) the price or formula for determination of exercise price of the warrants shall be determined
     upfront and disclosed in the offer document and at least twenty-five per cent. of the
     consideration amount based on the exercise price shall also be received upfront;
     Provided that in case the exercise price of warrants is based on a formula, twenty-five per
     cent. consideration amount based on the cap price of the price band determined for the linked
     equity shares or convertible securities shall be received upfront.
d) in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of the
     warrants held by the warrant holder, within three months from the date of payment of
     consideration, such consideration made in respect of such warrants shall be forfeited by the
     issuer.


PART III: PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION


Minimum promoters’ contribution
14. (1) The promoters of the issuer shall hold at least twenty per cent. of the post-issue capital:
Provided that in case the post-issue shareholding of the promoters is less than twenty per cent.,
alternative investment funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks
or public financial institutions or insurance companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority of India 37[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five
per cent. of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual or non-individual) forming part of
promoter group other than the promoter(s)] may contribute to meet the shortfall in minimum
contribution as specified for the promoters, subject to a maximum of ten per cent. of the post-issue
capital without being identified as promoter(s).
Provided further that the requirement of minimum promoters’ contribution shall not apply in case
an issuer does not have any identifiable promoter.
(2) The minimum promoters’ contribution shall be as follows:



37
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.

                                                   23
     a) the promoters shall contribute twenty per cent. as stipulated in sub-regulation (1), as the
        case may be, either by way of equity shares38[, including SR equity shares held, if any,] or
        by way of subscription to convertible securities:
            Provided that if the price of the equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion is not
            pre-determined and not disclosed in the offer document, the promoters shall contribute
            only by way of subscription to the convertible securities being issued in the public
            issue and shall undertake in writing to subscribe to the equity shares pursuant to
            conversion of such securities.
        b) in case of any issue of convertible securities which are convertible or exchangeable on
            different dates and if the promoters’ contribution is by way of equity shares
            (conversion price being pre-determined), such contribution shall not be at a price lower
            than the weighted average price of the equity share capital arising out of conversion of
            such securities.
        c) subject to the provisions of clause (a) and (b) above, in case of an initial public offer of
            convertible debt instruments without a prior public issue of equity shares, the
            promoters shall bring in a contribution of at least twenty per cent. of the project cost in
            the form of equity shares, subject to contributing at least twenty per cent. of the issue
            size from their own funds in the form of equity shares:
            Provided that if the project is to be implemented in stages, the promoters’
            contribution shall be with respect to total equity participation till the respective stage
            vis-à-vis the debt raised or proposed to be raised through the public issue.
(3) The promoters shall satisfy the requirements of this regulation at least one day prior to the date
of opening of the issue.
(4) In case the promoters have to subscribe to equity shares or convertible securities towards
minimum promoters’ contribution, the amount of promoters’ contribution shall be kept in an
escrow account with a scheduled commercial bank, which shall be released to the issuer along
with the release of the issue proceeds:
Provided that where the promoters’ contribution has already been brought in and utilised, the
issuer shall give the cash flow statement disclosing the use of such funds in the offer document;
Provided further that where the minimum promoters’ contribution is more than one hundred crore
rupees and the initial public offer is for partly paid shares, the promoters shall bring in at least one
hundred crore rupees before the date of opening of the issue and the remaining amount may be
brought on a pro-rata basis before the calls are made to the public.

38
  Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.

                                                   24
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation:
(I)   Promoters’ contribution shall be computed on the basis of the post-issue expanded capital:
      (a) assuming full proposed conversion of convertible securities into equity shares;
      (b) assuming exercise of all vested options, where any employee stock options 39[or stock
             appreciation rights] are outstanding at the time of initial public offer in terms of proviso
             (a) to sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5.
(II) For computation of “weighted average price”:
      (a) “weight” means the number of equity shares arising out of conversion of such specified
             securities into equity shares at various stages;
      (b) “price” means the price of equity shares on conversion arrived at after taking into
             account the predetermined conversion price at various stages.


Securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution
15. (1)     For the computation of minimum promoters’ contribution, the following specified
securities shall not be eligible:
          (a) specified securities acquired during the preceding three years, if these are:
               (i)      acquired for consideration other than cash and revaluation of assets or
                     capitalisation of intangible assets is involved in such transaction; or
               (ii) resulting from a bonus issue by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealised
                     profits of the issuer or from bonus issue against equity shares which are
                     ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution;
          (b) specified securities acquired by the promoters and alternative investment funds or
               foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial
               institutions or insurance companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and
               Development Authority of India 40[or any non-individual public shareholder holding
               at least five per cent. of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual or non-
               individual) forming part of promoter group other than the promoter(s)], during the
               preceding one year at a price lower than the price at which specified securities are
               being offered to the public in the initial public offer:
                Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply:




39
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
40
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.

                                                    25
                      41
              (i)          [if the promoters and alternative investment funds or foreign venture capital
                      investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or
                      insurance companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development
                      Authority of India] 42[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least
                      five per cent. of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual or non-
                      individual) forming part of promoter group other than the promoter(s)], as
                      applicable, pay to the issuer the difference between the price at which the
                      specified securities are offered in the initial public offer and the price at which
                      the specified securities had been acquired;
              (ii) if such specified securities are acquired in terms of the scheme under 43[***]
                      sections 230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013, as approved by a High Court
                      or a tribunal or the Central Government, as applicable, by the promoters in lieu
                      of business and invested capital that had been in existence for a period of more
                      than one year prior to such approval;
              (iii) to an initial public offer by a government company, statutory authority or
                      corporation or any special purpose vehicle set up by any of them, which is
                      engaged in the infrastructure sector;
              44
                   [(iv) to equity shares arising from the conversion or exchange of fully paid-up
                       compulsorily convertible securities, including depository receipts, that have
                       been held by the promoters and alternative investment funds or foreign venture
                       capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions
                       or     insurance   companies     registered    with     Insurance     Regulatory     and
                       Development Authority of India or any non-individual public shareholder
                       holding at least five per cent. of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual
                       or non-individual) forming part of promoter group other than the promoter(s),
                       as applicable, for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of the draft
                       offer document and such fully paid-up compulsorily convertible securities are
                       converted or exchanged into equity shares prior to the filing of the offer
                       document (i.e., red herring prospectus in case of a book built issue and

41
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “if the promoters and alternative investment funds”.
42
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
43
   The words, numbers and symbols “sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or” omitted by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
14.1.2022.
44
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.

                                                       26
                       prospectus in case of a fixed price issue), provided that full disclosures of the
                       terms of conversion or exchange are made in such draft offer document;]
           45
                [Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-regulation, it is clarified that the price per
                share for determining securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution,
                shall be determined, after adjusting the same for corporate actions such as share split,
                bonus issue, etc. undertaken by the issuer;]
        (c) specified securities allotted to 46[the promoters and alternative investment funds or
                foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial
                institutions or insurance companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and
                Development Authority of India] 47[or any non-individual public shareholder holding
                at least five per cent. of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual or non-
                individual) forming part of promoter group other than the promoter(s)] during the
                preceding one year at a price less than the issue price, against funds brought in by
                them during that period, in case of an issuer formed by conversion of one or more
                partnership firms or limited liability partnerships, where the partners of the erstwhile
                partnership firms or limited liability partnerships are the promoters of the issuer and
                there is no change in the management:
                Provided that specified securities, allotted to the promoters against the capital
                existing in such firms for a period of more than one year on a continuous basis, shall
                be eligible;
        (d) specified securities pledged with any creditor.


(2)      Specified securities referred to in clauses (a) and (c) of sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible
for the computation of promoters’ contribution if such securities are acquired pursuant to a
scheme which has been approved by a High Court 48[***] approved by a tribunal or the Central
Government under sections 230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013.


PART IV: LOCK-IN AND RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERABILITY



45
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
46
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “the promoters and alternative investment funds”.
47
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
48
   The words, symbol and numbers “under the sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956” omitted by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                     27
 Lock-in of specified securities held by the promoters
 16.       49[(1)] The specified securities held by the promoters shall not be transferable (hereinafter


 referred to as “lock-in”) for the periods as stipulated hereunder:
      a)   minimum promoters’ contribution including contribution made by alternative investment
           funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial
           institutions or insurance companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development
           Authority of India 50[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five per cent.
           of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual or non-individual) forming part of
           promoter group other than the promoter(s)] referred to in proviso to sub-regulation (1) of
           regulation 14, shall be locked-in for a period of 51[eighteen months from the date of
           allotment in the initial public offer:]
           52
                [ Provided that in case the majority of the issue proceeds excluding the portion of offer for
           sale is proposed to be utilized for capital expenditure, then the lock-in period shall be three
           years from the date of allotment in the initial public offer.]
   b) promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’ contribution shall be locked-in for a
           period of 53[six months] from the date of allotment in the initial public offer.
           54[ Provided that in case the majority of the issue proceeds excluding the portion of offer for


           sale is proposed to be utilized for capital expenditure, then the lock-in period shall be one
           year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer.]
55[Explanation: For the purpose of this sub-regulation, “capital expenditure” shall include civil


 work, miscellaneous fixed assets, purchase of land, building and plant and machinery, etc. 56[and
 repayment of existing loan(s) that may have been taken for the purpose of such capital
 expenditure.]]

 49
    Re-numbered by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
 w.e.f.29.07.2019.
 50
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
 51
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
 Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021, for the words “three years from the date of commencement of
 commercial production or date of allotment in the initial public offer, whichever is later;”
 52
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
 Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021.
 53
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
 Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021, for the words “one year”.
 54
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
 Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021.
 55
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
 Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the substitution, the Explanation read as follows –
      “Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, the expression "date of commencement of commercial production"
      means the last date of the month in which commercial production of the project in respect of which the funds
      raised are proposed to be utilised as stated in the offer document, is expected to commence.”
 56
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.
 08.03.2025.

                                                         28
57
     [(2) The SR equity shares shall be under lock-in until conversion into equity shares having
voting rights same as that of ordinary shares or shall be locked-in for a period specified in sub-
regulations (1), whichever is later.]

Lock-in of specified securities held by persons other than the promoters
17. The entire pre-issue capital held by persons other than the promoters shall be locked-in for a
period of 58[six months] from the date of allotment in the initial public offer:
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to:
a)      equity shares allotted to employees, whether currently an employee or not, under an
        employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme 59[or a stock appreciation right
        scheme] of the issuer prior to the initial public offer, if the issuer has made full disclosures
        with respect to such options or scheme in accordance with Part A of Schedule VI;
b)      equity shares held by an employee stock option trust or transferred to the employees by an
        employee stock option trust pursuant to exercise of options by the employees, whether
        currently employees or not, in accordance with the employee stock option plan or employee
        stock purchase scheme 60[or a stock appreciation rights scheme].
        Provided that the equity shares allotted to the employees shall be subject to the provisions of
        lock-in as specified under the 61[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based
        Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021].
c)      equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of category I or
        Category II or a foreign venture capital investor:
        Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least 62[six months]
        from the date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund 63[of
        Category I or Category II] or foreign venture capital investor.



57
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.
58
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021, for the words “one year”.
59
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.
08.03.2025.
60
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.
08.03.2025.
61
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023 for the words and symbols “Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014”.
62
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021, for the words “one year”.
63
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                        29
Explanation:
           64
                [(i)] For the purpose of clause (c), in case such equity shares have resulted pursuant to
                        conversion of fully paid-up compulsorily convertible securities, the holding
                        period of such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares
                        together shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of 65[six months
                        period] and convertible securities shall be deemed to be fully paid-up, if the
                        entire consideration payable thereon has been paid and no further consideration
                        is payable at the time of their conversion.
                 66
                      [(ii) For the purpose of clause (c), in case such equity shares have resulted pursuant
                        to a bonus issue, then the holding period of such equity shares against which the
                        bonus issue is made as well as holding period of resultant bonus equity shares
                        together shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of six months period,
                        subject to the following:
                              (a) that the bonus shares being issued out of free reserves and share
                              premium existing in the books of account as at the end of the financial
                              year preceding the financial year in which the draft offer document is filed
                              with the Board; and
                              (b) that the bonus shares not being issued by utilisation of revaluation
                              reserves or unrealized profits of the issuer.]
                 67
                      [(iii) For the purpose of clauses (a) and (b), equity shares shall include any equity
                      shares allotted pursuant to a bonus issue against equity shares allotted pursuant to
                      an employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme or a stock
                      appreciation right scheme.]




Lock-in of specified securities lent to stabilising agent under the green shoe option
18.   The lock-in provisions shall not apply with respect to the specified securities lent to
stabilising agent for the purpose of green shoe option, during the period starting from the date of




64
   Numbered as “(i)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
65
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “one year period”.
66
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
67
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                       30
lending of such specified securities and ending on the date on which they are returned to the
lender in terms of sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 57:
Provided that the specified securities shall be locked-in for the remaining period from the date on
which they are returned to the lender.


Lock-in of party-paid securities
19. If the specified securities which are subject to lock-in are partly paid-up and the amount
called-up on such specified securities is less than the amount called-up on the specified securities
issued to the public, the lock-in shall end only on the expiry of three years after such specified
securities have become pari passu with the specified securities issued to the public.


Inscription or recording of non-transferability
20.   The certificates of specified securities which are subject to lock-in shall contain the
inscription “non-transferable” and specify the lock-in period and in case such specified securities
are dematerialised, the issuer shall ensure that the lock-in is recorded by the depository.


Pledge of locked-in specified securities
21. Specified securities68[, except SR equity shares,] held by the promoters and locked-in may be
pledged as a collateral security for a loan granted by a scheduled commercial bank or a public
financial institution or a systemically important non-banking finance company or a housing
finance company, subject to the following:
a)    if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (a) of regulation 16, the loan has
      been granted to the issuer company or its subsidiary(ies) for the purpose of financing one or
      more of the objects of the issue and pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of
      sanction of the loan;
b)    if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (b) of regulation 16 and the pledge
      of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan.
Provided that such lock-in shall continue pursuant to the invocation of the pledge and such
transferee shall not be eligible to transfer the specified securities till the lock-in period stipulated
in these regulations has expired.


Transferability of locked-in specified securities



68
  Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.

                                                   31
22. Subject to the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition
of shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, the specified securities 69[, except SR equity shares,]
held by the promoters and locked-in as per regulation 16, may be transferred to another promoter
or any person of the promoter group or a new promoter and the specified securities held by
persons other than the promoters and locked-in as per regulation 17, may be transferred to any
other person holding the specified securities which are locked-in along with the securities
proposed to be transferred:
Provided that the lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with
the transferee and such transferee shall not be eligible to transfer them till the lock-in period
stipulated in these regulations has expired.


PART V: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER INTERMEDIARIES AND
COMPLIANCE OFFICER
23. (1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with the
Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2) Where the issue is managed by more than one lead manager, the rights, obligations and
responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations,
if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft offer document
and the offer document as specified in Schedule I.
(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and
if any of the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the
issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.
(4) The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other intermediaries which
are registered with the Board after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed the capability
of other intermediaries to carry out their obligations.
(5) The issuer shall enter into an agreement with the lead manager(s) in the format specified in
Schedule II and enter into agreements with other intermediaries as required under the respective
regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned:
Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the intermediaries
may deem fit without diminishing or limiting in any way the liabilities and obligations of the lead




69
  Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.

                                                   32
manager(s), other intermediaries and the issuer under the Act, the Companies Act, 2013 70[***],
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules and
regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof:
Provided further that in case of ASBA process, the issuer shall take cognisance of the deemed
agreement of the issuer with the self-certified syndicate banks.
(6) The issuer shall, in case of an issue made through the book building process, appoint
syndicate member(s) and in the case of any other issue, appoint bankers to issue, at centres in the
manner specified in Schedule XII.
(7)    The issuer shall appoint a registrar to the issue, registered with the Board, which has
connectivity with all the depositories:
Provided that if the issuer itself is a registrar, it shall not appoint itself as registrar to the issue;
Provided further that the lead manager shall not act as a registrar to the issue in which it is also
handling the post-issue responsibilities.
(8) The issuer shall appoint a 71[person qualified to be a company secretary as the] compliance
officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the securities laws and for
redressal of investors’ grievances.


PART VI: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS


Disclosures in the draft offer document and offer document
24. (1) The draft offer document and offer document shall contain all material disclosures which
are true and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the red-herring prospectus, and
prospectus shall contain:
      (a) disclosures specified in the Companies Act, 2013 and;
      (b) disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule VI .
(3) The lead manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves about all aspects of
the issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosure in the draft offer document and the
offer document.




70
   The words, numbers and symbols “or the Companies Act, 1956 (to the extent applicable)” omitted by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
14.1.2022.
71
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                        33
(4) The lead manager(s) shall call upon the issuer, its promoters and its directors or in case of an
offer for sale, also the selling shareholders, to fulfil their obligations as disclosed by them in the
draft offer document and the offer document and as required in terms of these regulations.
(5) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the information contained in the draft offer document and
offer document and the particulars as per restated audited financial statements in the offer document
are not more than six months old from the issue opening date.


Filing of the draft offer document and offer document
25. (1) Prior to making an initial public offer, the issuer shall file three copies of the draft offer
document 72[with the Board], in accordance with Schedule IV, along with fees as specified in
Schedule III, through the lead manager(s).
(2) The lead manager(s) shall submit the following to the Board along with the draft offer
document:
     a) a certificate, confirming that an agreement has been entered into between the issuer and
        the lead manager(s);
     b) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V;
     c) in case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate from the
        debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V;
(3) The issuer shall also file the draft offer document with the stock exchange(s) where the
specified securities are proposed to be listed, and submit to the stock exchange(s), the Permanent
Account Number, bank account number and passport number of its promoters where they are
individuals, and Permanent Account Number, bank account number, company registration
number or equivalent and the address of the Registrar of Companies with which the promoter is
registered, where the promoter is a body corporate.


(4) The Board may specify changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft offer document
within thirty days from the later of the following dates:
     a) the date of receipt of the draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or
     b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead manager(s), where the Board has
        sought any clarification or additional information from them; or
     c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the
        Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or


72
  Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022 for the words “with the concerned regional office of the Board
under the jurisdiction of which the registered office of the issuer company is located”.

                                                       34
     d) the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock exchange(s).
(5) If the Board specifies any changes or issues observations on the draft offer document, the
issuer and lead manager(s) shall carry out such changes in the draft offer document and shall
submit to the Board an updated draft offer document complying with the observations issued by
the Board and highlighting all changes made in the draft offer document and before 73[***] filing
the offer documents with the Registrar of Companies or an appropriate authority, as applicable.
(6) If there are any changes in the draft offer document in relation to the matters specified in
Schedule XVI, an updated offer document or a fresh draft offer document, as the case may be,
shall be filed with the Board along with fees specified in Schedule III.
(7) Copy of the offer documents shall also be filed with the Board and the stock exchange(s)
through the lead manager(s) promptly after 74[filing] the offer documents with Registrar of
Companies.
(8) The draft offer document and the offer document shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft
copy.
(9) The lead manager(s) shall submit the following documents to the Board after issuance of
observations by the Board or after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (4) of
regulation 25 if the Board has not issued observations:
a)      a statement certifying that all changes, suggestions and observations made by the Board
        have been incorporated in the offer document;
b)      a due diligence certificate as per Form C of Schedule V, at the time of 75[filing] of the offer
        document;
c)      a copy of the resolution passed by the board of directors of the issuer for allotting specified
        securities to promoter(s) towards amount received against promoters’ contribution, before
        opening of the issue;
d)      a certificate from a statutory auditor, before opening of the issue, certifying that promoters’
        contribution has been received in accordance with these regulations, accompanying
        therewith the names and addresses of the promoters who have contributed to the promoters’
        contribution and the amount paid and credited to the issuer’s bank account by each of them
        towards such contribution;




73
   Word “registering or” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020.
74
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Seventh
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
75
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Seventh
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.

                                                        35
e)    a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule V, in the event the issuer has made a
      disclosure of any material development by issuing a public notice pursuant to para 4 of
      Schedule IX.


Draft offer document and offer document to be available to the public
26. (1) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public for comments, if any,
for a period of at least twenty one days from the date of 76[publication of the public announcement
under sub-regulation (2)], by hosting it on the websites of 77[the issuer,] the Board, stock
exchanges where specified securities are proposed to be listed and lead manager(s) associated
with the issue.
(2) The issuer shall, within two 78[working] days of filing the draft offer document with the
Board, make a public announcement in one English national daily newspaper with wide
circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language
newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated,
disclosing the fact of filing of the draft offer document with the Board and inviting the public to
provide their comments to the Board, the issuer or the lead manager(s) in respect of the
disclosures made in the draft offer document.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with
the Board, details of the comments received by them or the issuer from the public, on the draft
offer document, during that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to be
made in the draft offer document.
(4) The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the offer documents are hosted on the
websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed
with the Registrar of Companies, Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable.
(5) The lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges shall provide copies of the offer document to the
public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of the same.


PART VII - PRICING


Face value of equity shares


76
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word “filing”.
77
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.
78
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                      36
     27. The disclosure about the face value of equity shares shall be made in the draft offer document,
     offer document, advertisements and application forms, along with the price band or the issue price
     in identical font size.


     Pricing
     28. (1) The issuer may determine the price of equity shares, and in case of convertible securities, the
     coupon rate and the conversion price, in consultation with the lead manager(s) or through the book
     building process, as the case may be.


     (2) The issuer shall undertake the book building process in the manner specified in Schedule
     XIII.


     Price and price band
     29. (1) The issuer may mention a price or a price band in the offer document (in case of a fixed price
     issue) and a floor price or a price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue)
     and determine the price at a later date before 79[filing] the prospectus with the Registrar of
     Companies:
     Provided that the prospectus 80[filed] with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price or
     the specific coupon rate, as the case may be.
     (2)      The cap on the price band, and the coupon rate in case of convertible debt instruments, shall
     be less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent. of the floor price.
     81
          [Provided that the cap of the price band shall be at least one hundred and five percent of the
     floor price.]
     (3) The floor price or the final price shall not be less than the face value of the specified
     securities.
82
     [(4) The issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least two working days before the
     opening of the issue in the pre-issue and price band advertisement in the format specified under Part



     79
        Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Seventh
     Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
     80
        Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Seventh
     Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registered”.
     81
         Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
     (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
     82
        Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
     (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (4) read as under,-

               “(4) Where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the floor price or price band in the red herring
               prospectus, the issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least two working days before the

                                                               37
A of Schedule X in the same newspapers in which the public announcement under sub-regulation (2)
of Regulation 26 was published.]
(5) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall contain relevant financial ratios
computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention
of the investors to the section titled “basis of issue price” of the offer document.
(6) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) and the relevant financial ratios referred
to in sub-regulation (5) shall be disclosed on the websites of the stock exchange(s) and shall also
be pre-filled in the application forms to be made available on the websites of the stock
exchange(s).


Differential pricing
30. (1) The issuer may offer its specified securities at different prices, subject to the following:
a)    retail individual investors or retail individual shareholders or employees entitled for
      reservation made under regulation 33 may be offered specified securities at a price not lower
      than by more than ten per cent. of the price at which net offer is made to other categories of
      applicants, excluding anchor investors;
b)    in case of a book built issue, the price of the specified securities offered to the anchor investors
      shall not be lower than the price offered to other applicants;
c)    In case the issuer opts for the alternate method of book building in terms of Part D of
      Schedule XIII, the issuer may offer the specified securities to its employees at a price not
      lower than by more than ten per cent. of the floor price.
(2) Discount, if any, shall be expressed in rupee terms in the offer document.


PART VIII: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE


Minimum offer to public
31. The minimum offer to the public shall be subject to the provisions of clause (b) of sub-rule (2)
of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957.


Allocation in the net offer
32. (1) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 6
the allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows:
(a) not less than thirty five per cent. to retail individual investors;

        opening of the issue in the same newspapers in which the pre-issue advertisement was released or together
        with the pre-issue advertisement in the format prescribed under Part A of Schedule X.”

                                                      38
(b) not less than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors;
(c) not more than fifty per cent. to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be
allocated to mutual funds:
Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may
be allocated to applicants in any other category:
Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual
funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.
(2) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6, the
allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows:
(a) not more than ten per cent. to retail individual investors;
(b) not more than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors;
(c) not less than seventy five per cent. to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be
allocated to mutual funds
Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may
be allocated to applicants in the other category:
Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual
funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.
(3) In an issue made through the book building process, the issuer may allocate up to sixty per cent.
of the portion available for allocation to qualified institutional buyers to anchor investors in
accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in Schedule XIII.
83
     [(3A) In an issue made through book building process, the allocation in the non-institutional
investors’ category shall be as follows:
             (a) one third of the portion available to non-institutional investors shall be reserved
                 for applicants with application size of more than two lakh rupees and up to ten lakh
                 rupees;
             (b) two third of the portion available to non-institutional investors shall be reserved
                 for applicants with application size of more than ten lakh rupees:
Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the sub-categories specified in clauses (a) or
(b), may be allocated to applicants in the other sub-category of non-institutional investors.]




83
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or
after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective from 1.7.2022.

                                                       39
(4) In an issue made other than through the book building process, the allocation in the net offer
category shall be made as follows:
i)    minimum fifty per cent. to retail individual investors; and
ii)   remaining to:
            84
                 [(a)] individual applicants other than retail individual investors; and
            85
                 [(b)] other investors including corporate bodies or institutions, irrespective of the number
            of specified securities applied for;
      Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b)
      may be allocated to applicants in the other category.
Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (4), if the retail individual investor category is
entitled to more than fifty per cent. of the issue size on a proportionate basis, the retail individual
investors shall be allocated that higher percentage.


Reservation on a competitive basis
33. (1) The issuer may make reservations on a competitive basis out of the issue size excluding
promoters’ contribution in favour of the following categories of persons:
a)    employees;
b)    shareholders (other than promoters and promoter group) of listed subsidiaries or listed promoter
      companies.
      Provided that the issuer shall not make any reservation for the lead manager(s), registrar,
      syndicate member(s), their promoters, directors and employees and for the group or associate
      companies (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013) of the lead manager(s), registrar and
      syndicate member(s) and their promoters, directors and employees.
(2) The reservations on a competitive basis shall be subject to the following conditions:
a)     the aggregate of reservations for employees shall not exceed five per cent. of the post-issue
      capital of the issuer and the value of allotment to any employee shall not exceed two lakhs
      rupees:
      Provided that in the event of under-subscription in the employee reservation portion, the
      unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of two
      lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs rupees.
b)    reservation for shareholders shall not exceed ten per cent. of the issue size;



84
   Sub-clause “(i)” renumbered as sub-clause “(a)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
85
   Sub-clause “(ii)” renumbered as sub-clause “(b)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                        40
c)    no further application for subscription in the net offer can be made by persons (except an
      employee and retail individual shareholder) in favour of whom reservation on a competitive
      basis is made;
d)    any unsubscribed portion in any reserved category may be added to any other reserved category
      and the unsubscribed portion, if any, after such inter-se adjustments among the reserved
      categories shall be added to the net offer category;
e)    in case of under-subscription in the net offer category, spill-over to the extent of under-
      subscription shall be permitted from the reserved category to the net offer.
(3) An applicant in any reserved category may make an application for any number of specified
securities, but not exceeding the reserved portion for that category.


Abridged prospectus
34. (1) The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified in Part E of Schedule
VI and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(2) Every application form distributed by the issuer or any other person in relation to an issue
shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus.


ASBA
35. The issuer shall accept bids using only the ASBA facility in the manner specified by the
Board.


Availability of issue material
36. The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the offer document and other issue material
including application forms to stock exchanges, syndicate members, registrar to issue, registrar
and share transfer agents, depository participants, stock brokers, underwriters, bankers to the
issue, and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue.


Prohibition on payment of incentives

37. Any person connected with the issue shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in
any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any person for making an
application in the initial public offer, except for fees or commission for services rendered in
relation to the issue.




                                                   41
86[***]




IPO grading
39. The issuer may obtain grading for its initial public offer from one or more credit rating
agencies registered with the Board.


 [Underwriting
87

40. (1) If the issuer making an initial public offer, other than through the book building process,
desires to have the issue underwritten to cover under-subscription in the issue, it shall, prior to the
filing of the prospectus, enter into an underwriting agreement with the merchant bankers or stock
brokers registered with the Board to act as underwriters, indicating therein the maximum number
of specified securities they shall subscribe to, either by themselves or by procuring subscription, at
a predetermined price which shall not be less than the issue price, and shall disclose the fact of
such underwriting agreement in the prospectus.




86
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. Prior to its omission, Regulation 38 read as follows-
          “Security deposit
          38. (1) The issuer shall, before the opening of the subscription list, deposit with the designated stock
          exchange, an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the issue size available for subscription to the
          public in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
          (2) The amount specified in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by
          the Board.”
87
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023. Prior to its substitution, regulation 40 read as follows,-
          “Underwriting
          40. (1) If the issuer making an initial public offer, other than through the book building process, desires to
          have the issue underwritten, it shall appoint merchant bankers or stock brokers, registered with the Board, to
          act as underwriters.
          (2) If the issuer makes a public issue through the book building process,
             a) the issue shall be underwritten by lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s):
                  Provided that at least seventy five per cent. of the net offer proposed to be compulsorily allotted to
                  qualified institutional buyers for the purpose of compliance of the eligibility conditions specified in
                  sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6, cannot be underwritten.
             b) the issuer shall, prior to filing the prospectus, enter into underwriting agreement with the lead
                  manager(s) and syndicate member(s), indicating therein the number of specified securities which they
                  shall subscribe to at the predetermined price in the event of under-subscription in the issue.
             c) if the syndicate member(s) fail to fulfil their underwriting obligations, the lead manager(s) shall fulfil
                  the underwriting obligations.
             d) the lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s) shall not subscribe to the issue in any manner except for
                  fulfilling their underwriting obligations.
             e) in case of every underwritten issue, the lead manager(s) shall undertake minimum underwriting
                  obligations as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers)
                  Regulations, 1992.
             f) where the issue is required to be underwritten, the underwriting obligations should at least to the
                  extent of minimum subscription.”



                                                           42
(2) The issuer making an initial public offer, other than through the book building process, shall,
prior to the filing of the prospectus, enter into an underwriting agreement with the merchant
bankers or stock brokers registered with the Board to act as underwriters, indicating therein the
number of specified securities they shall subscribe to on account of rejection of applications,
either by themselves or by procuring subscription, at a predetermined price which shall not be less
than the issue price, and shall disclose the fact of such underwriting agreement in the prospectus.


(3) If the issuer makes a public issue through the book building process:
    (a) the issue shall be underwritten by lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s):
    Provided that at least seventy five per cent. of the net offer proposed to be compulsorily
    allotted to qualified institutional buyers for the purpose of compliance of the eligibility
    conditions specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6 shall not be underwritten.
   (b) the issuer shall, prior to the filing of the prospectus, enter into an underwriting agreement
    with the lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s), indicating therein the number of specified
    securities they shall subscribe to on account of rejection of bids, either by themselves or by
    procuring subscription, at a price which shall not be less than the issue price, and shall
    disclose the fact of such underwriting agreement in the prospectus.
   (c) if the issuer desires to have the issue underwritten to cover under-subscription in the issue,
    it shall, prior to the filing of the red herring prospectus, enter into an underwriting agreement
    with the lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s) to act as underwriters, indicating therein
    the maximum number of specified securities they shall subscribe to, either by themselves or
    by procuring subscription, at a price which shall not be less than the issue price, and shall
    disclose the fact of such underwriting agreement in the red herring prospectus.
   (d) if the syndicate member(s) fail to fulfil their underwriting obligations, the lead
    manager(s) shall fulfil the underwriting obligations.
   (e) the lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s) shall not subscribe to the issue in any manner
    except for fulfilling their underwriting obligations.


   (f) in   case   of   every   underwritten   issue,   the   lead   manager(s)    shall    undertake
    minimum underwriting obligations as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board
    of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.
    (g) where the issue is required to be underwritten, the underwriting obligations should be at
    least to the extent of minimum subscription.]


Monitoring agency

                                                 43
41. (1) If the issue size, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders, exceeds one
hundred crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be
monitored by a 88[credit rating agency registered with the Board:]
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made by a
bank or public financial institution or an insurance company.
(2)     The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in
Schedule XI on a quarterly basis, till 89[hundred per cent]. of the proceeds of the issue 90[***]
have been utilised.


(3)     The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on
the findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
(4)     The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publicly disseminate
the report of the monitoring agency by uploading the same on its website as well as submitting the
same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed.


Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports
42. All public communication, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports shall
comply with the provisions of Schedule IX.


Issue-related advertisements
43. 91[(1) Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the issuer shall, after filing the red
herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of fixed price issue) with the
Registrar of Companies, make a pre-issue and price band advertisement in the same newspapers in
which the public announcement under sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 26 was published.]



88
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbol “public financial institution or by a
scheduled commercial bank named in the offer document as bankers of the issuer:”.
89
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “at least ninety five per cent”.
90
   The words and symbols “, excluding the proceeds raised for general corporate purposes,” omitted by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
14.1.2022.
91
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under,-

        “(1) Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the issuer shall, after filing the red herring
        prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of fixed price issue) with the Registrar of
        Companies, make a pre-issue advertisement in one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation,
        Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language newspaper with wide
        circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated.”

                                                        44
(2) The pre-issue 92[and price band] advertisement shall be in the format and shall contain the
disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule X.
93
     [***]
(3) The issuer may release advertisements for issue opening and issue closing, which shall be in
the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule X.
(4) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving
an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed or indicating investors’
response to the issue.


Opening of the issue
44 . (1) Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a public issue
may be opened within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board
under regulation 25;
(2) An issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of 94[filing], the red
herring prospectus, in case of a book built issue and the prospectus, in case of a fixed price issue,
with the Registrar of Companies.


Minimum subscription
45. (1) The minimum subscription to be received in the issue shall be at least ninety per cent. of
the offer through the offer document, except in case of an offer for sale of specified securities:
Provided that the minimum subscription to be received shall be subject to the allotment of
minimum number of specified securities, as prescribed under the Securities Contracts
(Regulation) Rules, 1957.
(2) In the event of non-receipt of minimum subscription referred to in sub-regulation (1), all
application monies received shall be refunded to the applicants forthwith, but not later than 95[four
days] from the closure of the issue.




92
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
93
   Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
08.03.2025. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under:

          “Provided that the disclosures in relation to price band or floor price and financial ratios contained therein
          shall only be applicable where the issuer opts to announce the price band or floor price along with the pre-
          issue advertisement pursuant to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 29.”
94
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Seventh
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
95
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “fifteen days”.

                                                          45
Period of subscription
46. (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, an initial public offer shall be kept open
for at least three working days and not more than ten working days.
(2) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed
in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions
of sub-regulation (1).
(3) In case of force majeure, banking strike or similar 96[unforeseen] circumstances, the issuer may,
for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring
prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or the issue period disclosed in the prospectus (in case of a
fixed price issue), for a minimum period of 97[one working day], subject to the provisions of sub-
regulation (1).


Application and minimum application value
47. (1) A person shall not make an application in the net offer category for a number of specified
securities that exceeds the total number of specified securities offered to the public.
Provided that the maximum application by non-institutional investors shall not exceed total number
of specified securities offered in the issue less total number of specified securities offered in the issue
to qualified institutional buyers.
(2) The issuer shall stipulate in the offer document the minimum application size in terms of
number of specified securities which shall fall within the range of minimum application value of
ten thousand rupees to fifteen thousand rupees.
(3) The issuer shall invite applications in multiples of the minimum application value, an illustration
whereof is given in Part B of Schedule XIV.
(4) The minimum sum payable on application per specified security shall be at least twenty five per
cent. of the issue price:
Provided that in case of an offer for sale, the full issue price for each specified security shall be
payable at the time of application.
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “minimum application value” shall be with
reference to the issue price of the specified securities and not with reference to the amount payable on
application.




96
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
97
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024 for the words “three working days”.

                                                    46
Manner of calls
48. If the issuer proposes to receive subscription monies in calls, it shall ensure that the outstanding
subscription money is called within twelve months from the date of allotment in the issue and if any
applicant fails to pay the call money within the said twelve months, the equity shares on which there
are calls in arrears along with the subscription money already paid on such shares shall be forfeited:
Provided that it shall not be necessary to call the outstanding subscription money within twelve
months, if the issuer has appointed a monitoring agency in terms of regulation 41.


Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
49. (1) The issuer shall not make an allotment pursuant to a public issue if the number of prospective
allottees is less than one thousand.
(2) The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered through
the offer document except in case of oversubscription for the purpose of rounding off to make
allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange.
Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than one per cent. of the net
offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots.
(3) The allotment of specified securities to applicants other than to the retail individual investors
98
     [, non-institutional investors] and anchor investors shall be on a proportionate basis within the
respective investor categories and the number of securities allotted shall be rounded off to the
nearest integer, subject to minimum allotment being equal to the minimum application size as
determined and disclosed in the offer document:
Provided that the value of specified securities allotted to any person, except in case of employees,
in pursuance of reservation made under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) or clause (a) of sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 33, shall not exceed two lakhs rupees for retail investors or up to five
lakhs rupees for eligible employees.
(4) The allotment of specified securities to each retail individual investor shall not be less than the
minimum bid lot, subject to the availability of shares in retail individual investor category, and the
remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis.
99
     [(4A) The allotment of specified securities to each non-institutional investor shall not be less
than the minimum application size, subject to the availability of shares in non-institutional


98
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or
after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective from 1.7.2022.
99
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second

                                                       47
investors’ category, and the remaining shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis in
accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in Schedule XIII of these regulations.]
(5) The authorised employees of the designated stock exchange, along with the lead manager(s)
and registrars to the issue, shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper
manner in accordance with the procedure as specified in Part A of Schedule XIV.


Allotment, refund and payment of interest
50. (1) The issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that the specified securities are allotted and/or
application monies are refunded or unblocked within such period as may be specified by the Board.
(2)   The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities and
refund or unblocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(3) Where the specified securities are not allotted and/or application monies are not refunded or
unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay
interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum to the investors and within such time as disclosed
in the offer document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same.




Post-issue advertisements
51. (1) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that an advertisement giving details relating to
subscription, basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of all applications including
ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA,
date of completion of despatch of refund orders, as applicable, or instructions to self-certified
syndicate banks by the registrar, date of credit of specified securities and date of filing of listing
application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in
at least one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily
newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation
at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2) Details specified in sub regulation (1) shall also be placed on the websites of the stock
exchange(s).


Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s)
52. (1) The responsibility of the lead manager(s) shall continue until completion of the issue
process and for any issue related matter thereafter.

Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or
after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective from 1.7.2022.

                                                      48
(2) The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any
issue related activities.
(3)   The lead manager(s)        shall continue to be responsible for post-issue activities till the
applicants have received the securities certificates, credit to their demat account or refund of
application monies and the listing agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange
and listing or trading permission is obtained.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall be responsible for and co-ordinate with the registrars to the issue
and with various intermediaries at regular intervals after the closure of the issue to monitor the
flow of applications from syndicate member(s) or collecting bank branches and/ or self-certified
syndicate banks, processing of the applications including application form for ASBA and other
matters till the basis of allotment is finalised, credit of the specified securities to the demat
accounts of the allottees and unblocking of ASBA accounts/ despatch of refund orders are
completed and securities are listed, as applicable.


(5) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead
manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board.
(6) In case there is a devolvement on the underwriters, the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the
notice for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within ten days
from the date of closure of the issue.
(7) In the case of undersubscribed issues that are underwritten, the lead manager(s) shall furnish
information in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting devolvement to
the Board, in the format specified in Schedule XVIII.


Release of subscription money
53. (1) The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing
and trading approvals that all formalities in connection with the issue have been completed and
that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of
failure of the issue.
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where
the specified securities were to be listed, it shall refund through verifiable means the entire monies
received within 100[four days] of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the




100
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “seven days”.

                                                    49
      application for listing of specified securities, and if any such money is not repaid within 101[four
      days] after the issuer becomes liable to repay it, the issuer and every director of the company who
      is an officer in default shall, on and from the expiry of the 102[fourth day], be jointly and severally
      liable to repay that money with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
       (3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the issue are released
      to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of Section 40 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013, as
      applicable.



103   [Reporting    of transactions of the promoters and promoter group and other pre-IPO
      transactions
      54. (1) The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter group
      between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the
      date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty-four hours of
      such transactions.
      (2) The issuer shall also ensure that any proposed pre-IPO placement disclosed in the draft offer
      document shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty-four hours of such pre-IPO
      transactions (in part or in entirety).]


      Post-issue reports
      55. The lead manager(s) shall submit a final post-issue report as specified in Part A of Schedule
      XVII, along with a due diligence certificate as per the format specified in Form F of Schedule V,
      within seven days of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or within seven days of refund
      of money in case of failure of issue.


      PART IX: MISCELLANEOUS


      Restriction on further capital issues

      101
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eight days”.
      102
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eighth day”.
      103
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 54 read as under:

              “Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group
              54. The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoter and promoter group between
              the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the date of closure
              of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty four hours of such transactions.”

                                                              50
56. An issuer shall not make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether by way
of public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of bonus shares
or otherwise, except pursuant to an employee stock option scheme 104[or a stock appreciation right
scheme], during the period between the date of filing the draft offer document and the listing of the
specified securities offered through the offer document or refund of application monies, unless full
disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities or amount proposed to be raised
from such further issue are made in such draft offer document or offer document, as the case may
be.


Price stabilisation through green shoe option
57. (1) An issuer may provide a green shoe option for stabilising the post listing price of its specified
securities, subject to the following:
      a) the issuer has been authorized, by a resolution passed in the general meeting of shareholders
         approving the public issue, to allot specified securities to the stabilising agent, if required, on
         the expiry of the stabilisation period;
      b) the issuer has appointed a lead manager as a stabilising agent, who shall be responsible for
         the price stabilisation process;
      c) prior to filing the draft offer document, the issuer and the stabilising agent have entered into
         an agreement, stating all the terms and conditions relating to the green shoe option including
         fees charged and expenses to be incurred by the stabilising agent for discharging its
         responsibilities;
      d) prior to filing the offer document, the stabilising agent has entered into an agreement with the
         promoters or pre-issue shareholders or both for borrowing specified securities from them in
         accordance with clause (g) of this sub-regulation, specifying therein the maximum number of
         specified securities that may be borrowed for the purpose of allotment or allocation of
         specified securities in excess of the issue size (hereinafter referred to as the “over-
         allotment”), which shall not be in excess of fifteen per cent. of the issue size;
      e) subject to clause (d), the lead manager, in consultation with the stabilising agent, shall
         determine the amount of specified securities to be over-allotted in the public issue;
      f) the draft offer document and offer document shall contain all material disclosures about the
         green shoe option specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VI;




104
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                     51
      g) in case of an initial public offer pre-issue shareholders and promoters and in case of a further
          public offer pre-issue shareholders holding more than five per cent. specified securities and
          promoters, may lend specified securities to the extent of the proposed over-allotment;
      h) the specified securities borrowed shall be in dematerialised form and allocation of these
          securities shall be made pro-rata to all successful applicants.
(2) For the purpose of stabilisation of post-listing price of the specified securities, the stabilising
      agent shall determine the relevant aspects including the timing of buying such securities, quantity
      to be bought and the price at which such securities are to be bought from the market.
(3) The stabilisation process shall be available for a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on
      which trading permission is given by the stock exchanges in respect of the specified securities
      allotted in the public issue.
(4) The stabilising agent shall open a special account, distinct from the issue account, with a bank for
      crediting the monies received from the applicants against the over-allotment and a special
      account with a depository participant for crediting specified securities to be bought from the
      market during the stabilisation period out of the monies credited in the special bank account.
(5) The specified securities bought from the market and credited in the special account with the
      depository participant shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders immediately,
      in any case not later than two working days after the end of the stabilization period.
(6) On expiry of the stabilisation period, if the stabilising agent has not been able to buy specified
      securities from the market to the extent of such securities over-allotted, the issuer shall allot
      specified securities at issue price in dematerialised form to the extent of the shortfall to the
      special account with the depository participant, within five days of the closure of the stabilisation
      period and such specified securities shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders
      by the stabilising agent in lieu of the specified securities borrowed from them and the account
      with the depository participant shall be closed thereafter.
(7) The issuer shall make a listing application in respect of the further specified securities allotted
      under sub-regulation (6), to all the stock exchanges where the specified securities allotted in the
      public issue are listed and the provisions of 105[Chapter V of these regulations] shall not be
      applicable to such allotment.
(8) The stabilising agent shall remit the monies with respect to the specified securities allotted under
      sub-regulation (6) to the issuer from the special bank account.
(9) Any monies left in the special bank account after remittance of monies to the issuer under sub-
      regulation (8) and deduction of expenses incurred by the stabilising agent for the stabilisation

105
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word and symbol “Chapter VII”.

                                                     52
      process shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the
      Board and the special bank account shall be closed soon thereafter.
(10)      The stabilising agent shall submit a report to the stock exchange on a daily basis during the
      stabilisation period and a final report to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XV.
(11)      The stabilising agent shall maintain a register for a period of at least three years from the date
      of the end of the stabilisation period and such register shall contain the following particulars:
      (a) The names of the promoters or pre-issue shareholders from whom the specified securities
          were borrowed and the number of specified securities borrowed from each of them;
      (b) The price, date and time in respect of each transaction effected in the course of the
          stabilisation process; and
      (c) The details of allotment made by the issuer on expiry of the stabilisation process.


Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities
58. The issuer shall not alter the terms including the terms of issue of specified securities which
may adversely affect the interests of the holders of that specified securities, except with the
consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths of the specified securities of that
class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified
securities of that class.


Post-listing exit opportunity for dissenting shareholders
59. The promoters, or shareholders in control of an issuer, shall provide an exit offer to dissenting
shareholders as provided for in the Companies Act, 2013, in case of change in objects or variation
in the terms of contract related to objects referred to in the offer document as per conditions and
manner is provided in Schedule XX;
Provided that the exit offer shall not apply where there are neither any identifiable promoters
nor any shareholders in control of the issuer.


                                                  106[CHAPTER IIA


                INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER ON MAIN BOARD THROUGH PRE-FILING OF
                                           DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT



Definitions


106
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.

                                                      53
59A. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,—

(a) “pre-filed draft offer document” shall mean draft offer document filed with the Board under
   this Chapter;
(b) “pre-filed offer document” shall mean pre-filed draft offer document or updated draft red
   herring prospectus-I or updated draft red herring prospectus-II with the Board under this
   Chapter;
(c) “updated draft red herring prospectus-I” shall mean the updated pre-filed draft offer document
   filed with the Board after complying with the observations issued by the Board on such pre-
   filed draft offer document;
(d) “updated draft red herring prospectus-II” shall mean the updated draft red herring prospectus-I
   filed with the Board after incorporating the comments of the public received on such updated
   draft red herring prospectus-I.

  Application of this Chapter
  59B. (1) In lieu of an initial public offer of specified securities on the Main Board under
  Chapter-II of these regulations, the issuer may make an initial public offer of specified securities
  in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
  (2) Except for anything contrary provided in this Chapter, the provisions of Chapter-II shall
  mutatis mutandis apply in relation to the initial public offer made under the provisions of this
  Chapter:
  Provided that regulation 8 and regulation 15 of these regulations shall apply at the stage of filing
  of the updated draft red herring prospectus-I.



  Pre-filing of draft offer document with the Board and Stock Exchanges
  59C. (1) Prior to making an initial public offer, the issuer may file three copies of the draft offer
  document with the Board, in accordance with Schedule IV, along with fees as specified in
  Schedule III, through the lead manager(s).
  (2) The issuer shall also file the pre-filed draft offer document with the stock exchange(s) where
  the specified securities are proposed to be listed and submit to the stock exchange(s); the
  Permanent Account Number, bank account number and passport number of its promoters where
  they are individuals and the Permanent Account Number, bank account number, company
  registration number or equivalent and the address of the Registrar of Companies with which the
  promoter is registered; where the promoter is a body corporate.



                                                   54
  (3) The pre-filed draft offer document filed under sub-regulation (1) shall not be available in the
  public domain.
  (4) The lead manager(s) shall submit the following to the Board along with the pre-filed draft
  offer document:
      (a) a certificate, confirming that an agreement has been entered into between the issuer and the
         lead manager(s);
      (b) a due diligence certificate as per Form AA of Schedule V;
      (c) in case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate from the
         debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V;
      (d) an undertaking from the issuer and the lead manager that they shall not conduct marketing
         or advertisement for the intended issue, in the format as may be specified by the Board from
         time to time:
  Provided that all public communications issued or published in any media during the period
  commencing from the date of the meeting of the board of directors of the issuer in which the
  public issue is approved till the date of filing of updated draft red herring prospectus-I or
  withdrawal of pre-filed draft offer document shall be consistent with its past practices.
  (5) The issuer shall, within two 107[working] days of pre-filing the draft offer document, make a
  public announcement in one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi
  national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language newspaper with wide
  circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated, disclosing the fact of
  filing of pre-filing of the draft offer document without providing any other details in relation to
  the intended issue:
  Provided that the issuer shall state in the public announcement that the pre-filing of offer
  document shall not necessarily mean that the issuer shall undertake the initial public offering.
 (6) The Board may recommend changes or issue observations, if any, on the pre-filed draft offer
  document within thirty days from the later of the following dates:
      (a) the date of receipt of the pre-filed draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or
      (b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead manager(s), where the Board has
          sought any clarification or additional information from them; or
      (c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the
          Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or
      (d) the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock
          exchange(s);or

107
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                    55
      (e) date of intimation of completion of interaction with the qualified institutional buyers in
            terms of regulation 59D of these regulations; or
      (f)   date of intimation to the Board about the conversion of outstanding convertible securities
            or exercise of any other right which would entitle any person with any option to receive
            equity shares in terms of regulation 59E of these regulations.
  (7) If the Board recommends any changes or issues observations on the pre-filed draft offer
  document, the issuer and the lead manager(s) shall carry out such changes in the pre-filed draft
  offer document and shall submit to the Board an updated draft red herring prospectus-I
  complying with the observations issued by the Board:
  Provided that there shall be a minimum gap of seven working days between the date of
  intimation to the Board about the completion of interaction with the qualified institutional buyers
  in accordance with regulation 59D of these regulations and the date of filing of the updated draft
  red herring prospectus-I.
  Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, an updated draft red herring prospectus-I shall
  be complete in all respects and shall be in compliance with the provisions of these regulations
  and to the other applicable laws as the case may be.
  (8) The lead manager(s) shall submit the following documents to the Board after issuance of
  observations by the Board:
      (a) a statement certifying that all changes, suggestions and observations made by the Board
            have been incorporated in the offer document;
      (b) a due diligence certificate as per Form CA of Schedule V, at the time of filing of the offer
            document;
  (9) The updated draft red herring prospectus-I shall be made public for comments, if any, for a
  period of at least twenty one days from the date of 108[publication of the public announcement
  under sub-regulation (10)], by hosting it on the websites of 109[the issuer,] the Board, the stock
  exchanges where the specified securities are proposed to be listed and that of the lead
  manager(s) associated with the issue:
  Provided that pursuant to the filing of the updated draft red herring prospectus-I, all public
  communication, publicity material, advertisements and research reports shall comply with the
  provisions of Schedule IX.




108
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word “filing”.
109
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.

                                                       56
  (10) The issuer shall, within two 110[working] days of filing the updated draft red herring
  prospectus-I, make a public announcement in one English national daily newspaper with wide
  circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language
  newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated,
  disclosing the fact of filing of the updated draft red herring prospectus-I and inviting the public
  to provide their comments to the Board, the issuer or the lead manager(s) in respect of the
  disclosures made in the updated draft red herring prospectus-I.
  (11) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (9), file
  with the Board, the details of the comments received by them or the issuer from the public, on
  the updated draft red herring prospectus-I, during that period and the consequential changes, if
  any, that are required to be made in the updated draft red herring prospectus-I.
 (12) The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall carry out such changes in the updated draft red
  herring prospectus-I and shall submit to the Board an updated draft red herring prospectus-II
  before filing the offer document with the Registrar of Companies or an appropriate authority, as
  applicable.
  (13) The lead manager(s) shall submit the following documents to the Board before filing the
  offer document with the Registrar of Companies:
  (a) a statement certifying that all changes, suggestions and observations made by the Board have
      been incorporated in the offer document;
  (b) a due diligence certificate as per Form CA of Schedule V, at the time of filing of the offer
      document;
  (c) a copy of the resolution passed by the board of directors of the issuer for allotting specified
      securities to promoter(s) towards amount received against promoters’ contribution, before
      opening of the issue;
  (d) a certificate from a statutory auditor, before opening of the issue, certifying that promoters’
      contribution has been received in accordance with these regulations, accompanying
      therewith the names and addresses of the promoters who have contributed to the promoters’
      contribution and the amount paid and credited to the issuer’s bank account by each of them
      towards such contribution;
  (e) a due diligence certificate as per Form DA of Schedule V, in the event the issuer has made a
      disclosure of any material development by issuing a public notice pursuant to para 4 of
      Schedule IX.



110
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                  57
(14) The copy of the offer document shall also be filed promptly with the Board and the stock
 exchange(s) through the lead manager(s) after filing the offer documents with the Registrar of
 Companies.
(15) The pre-filed draft offer document and the offer document shall also be furnished to the
 Board in a soft copy.
(16) The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the offer documents are hosted on the
 websites as required under these regulations and that its contents are the same as the versions
 filed with the Registrar of Companies, the Board and the stock exchanges, as may be applicable.
 (17) The lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges shall provide the copies of the offer document
 to the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing the same.


 Interaction with qualified institutional buyers

 59D. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the provisions of this Chapter,
 an issuer may interact with the qualified institutional buyers for limited marketing of the
 intended issue from the time of pre-filing the draft offer document till the Board issues any
 observations on such pre-filed draft offer document.
 (2) The interaction specified under sub-regulation (1) shall be restricted to the information
 contained in the pre-filed draft offer document.
 (3) In case the issuer interacts with the qualified institutional buyers in terms of sub-regulation
 (1) and sub-regulation (2) above, the issuer and lead manager(s) shall prepare a list of the
 qualified institutional buyers who have participated in such interaction(s).
 (4) The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall submit to the Board confirmation of closure of
 interaction(s) with the qualified institutional buyers.


General Conditions

59E. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of these regulations, subject
to intimation to the Board and the stock exchanges, an issuer opting for initial public offer through
pre-filing the draft offer document in terms of the provisions of this Chapter shall, till the Board
recommends any changes or issues observations on the pre-filed draft offer document, be
permitted the following:
(a) Existence of outstanding convertible securities or any other right which would entitle any
   person with any option to receive equity shares of the issuer:



                                                  58
       Provided that the issuer shall mandatorily convert such outstanding convertible securities or
       exercise any other right which would entitle any person with any option to receive equity shares
       of the issuer and intimate such act of conversion to the Board before the Board recommends any
       changes or issues observations on the pre-filed draft offer document:
       Provided further that the following shall be permitted even after the issuance of observations by
       the Board on the pre-filed draft offer document:
             (i) Existence of outstanding options granted to employees, whether currently an employee or
                not, pursuant to an employee stock option scheme in compliance with the Companies Act,
                2013, the relevant Guidance Note or accounting standards, if any, issued by the Institute of
                Chartered Accountants of India or pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013, in this regard;
  111
        [(ii) outstanding stock appreciation rights granted to employees pursuant to a stock appreciation
                right scheme, which are fully exercised for equity shares prior to the filing of the red herring
                prospectus (in case of book-built issues) or the prospectus (in case of fixed price issues), as
                the case may be, disclosures regarding such stock appreciation rights and the scheme and
                the total number of equity shares resulting from the exercise of such rights are made in the
                draft offer document and offer document;]
112
      [(iii)] Existence of fully paid-up outstanding convertible securities which are required to be
                converted on or before the date of filing of the red herring prospectus (in case of book-built
                issues) or the prospectus (in case of fixed price issues), as the case may be;
       (b) Issue of specified securities;
       (c) Issue such convertible securities that are mandatorily and compulsorily convertible into
               equity shares at the time of filing of offer document, provided the details for such securities
               are given in the updated draft red herring prospectus-I in relation to the maximum number of
               shares in which such convertible securities shall be converted.
       (2)        If there are any changes in the pre-filed draft offer document after the Board recommends
       any changes or issues observations on such pre-filed draft offer document in relation to the
       matters specified in Schedule XVI-A, an updated pre-filed draft offer document or a fresh pre-
       filed draft offer document, as the case may be, shall be filed with the Board along with fees
       specified in Schedule III.
       Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, changes made in the pre-filed draft offer
       document in relation to the matters specified in clause (1) of Schedule XVIA before the Board


       111
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
       112
           Renumbered by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.08.03.2025. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(ii)”.



                                                              59
  recommends any changes or issues observations on the pre-filed draft offer document shall not
  require fresh filing of such pre-filed draft offer document.
  (3)       If there are any changes in the updated draft red herring prospectus-I in relation to the
  matters specified in Schedule XVI, an updated pre-filed offer document or a fresh draft offer
  document under Chapter II or fresh pre-filed draft offer document, as the case may be, shall be
  filed with the Board along with fees specified in Schedule III.
  (4)       Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a public issue
  may be opened within eighteen months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board
  under regulation 59C of these regulations:
  Provided that the issuer shall file updated draft red herring prospectus-I with the Board and the
  stock exchanges in terms of regulation 59C of these regulations within sixteen months from the
  date of issuance of the observations by the Board.]


                                         CHAPTER III - RIGHTS ISSUE


  PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS


113[Reference date


  60. Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an issuer offering specified securities through a
  rights issue shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter at the time of filing the draft letter of offer
  with the stock exchange(s), and at the time of filing the letter of offer with the Board and the stock
  exchange(s).]


  Entities not eligible to make a rights issue
  61. An issuer shall not be eligible to make a rights issue of specified securities:
  a)    if the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors of the issuer are debarred from
        accessing the capital market by the Board;
  b)    if any of the promoters or directors of the issuer is a promoter or director of any other
        company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board114[;]


  113
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 60 read as under,-

  “Reference date
  60. Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an issuer offering specified securities of aggregate value of fifty crores
  rupees or more, through a rights issue shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter at the time of filing the draft letter
  of offer with the Board and also at the time of filing the final letter of offer with the stock exchanges, as the case
  may be.”

                                                             60
       c)     if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender115[;]
116
      [d)     if the equity shares of the issuer are suspended from trading as a disciplinary measure as on
              the reference date.]
              Explanation: The restrictions under (a) and (b) above will not apply to the 117[persons or
              entities mentioned therein] who were debarred in the past by the Board and the period of
              debarment is already over as on the date of filing of the draft letter of offer with the 118[stock
              exchange(s)].


       General conditions
       62. (1) The issuer making a rights issue of specified securities shall ensure that:
             (a) it has made an application to one or more stock exchanges to seek an in-principle approval
                    for listing of its specified securities on such stock exchanges and has chosen one of them
                    as the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX.
             (b) all its existing partly paid-up equity shares have either been fully paid-up or have been
                    forfeited;
             (c) it has made firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards seventy five
                    per cent. of the stated means of finance for the specific project proposed to be funded from
                    issue proceeds, excluding the amount to be raised through the proposed rights issue or
                    through existing identifiable internal accruals.
             119
                   [Explanation - For the purpose of this regulation ‘finance for the specific project’ shall
                    mean finance of capital expenditures only.]
       (2) The amount for general corporate purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft
       letter of offer and the letter of offer, shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount raised by
       the issuer.

120
      [(2A) The amount for:


       114
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the symbol “.”.
       115
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the symbol “.”.
       116
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
       117
           Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
       w.e.f. 28.09.2020. Prior to its substitution, it read as “promoters or directors of the issuer”.
       118
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the word “Board”.
       119
           Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
       w.e.f. 28.09.2020.
       120
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                              61
             (i) general corporate purposes, and
             (ii) such objects where the issuer company has not identified acquisition or investment
                  target, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer document and the offer
                  document,

      shall not exceed thirty five per cent. of the amount being raised by the issuer:

      Provided that the amount raised for such objects where the issuer company has not identified
      acquisition or investment target, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the 121[draft letter of
      offer and the letter of offer], shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount being raised
      by the issuer:

      Provided further that such limits shall not apply if the proposed acquisition or strategic
      investment object has been identified and suitable specific disclosures about such
      acquisitions / investments are made in the 122[draft letter of offer and the letter of offer] at the
      time of filing of offer documents.]
(3) Where the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a 123[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
borrower], the promoters or promoter group of the issuer shall not renounce their rights except to
the extent of renunciation within the promoter group 124[or to the specific investor(s) as disclosed
by the issuer in terms of these regulations].
125
      [(4) Where the issuer has issued SR equity shares to its promoters or founders, then such a SR
shareholder shall not renounce their rights and the SR shares received in a rights issue shall
remain under lock-in until conversion into equity shares having voting rights same as that of
ordinary equity shares along with existing SR equity shares.]


PART II: ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND WARRANTS


Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments




121
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words “draft offer document and the offer document”.
122
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words “draft offer document and the offer document”.
123
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
124
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
125
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.

                                                     62
63. (1) In addition to other requirements laid down in these regulations, an issuer making a rights
issue of convertible debt instruments shall also comply with the following conditions:
a) it has obtained credit rating from at least one credit rating agency;
b) it has appointed at least one debenture trustee in accordance with the provisions of the
   Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees)
   Regulations, 1993;
c) it shall create a debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the
   Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder;
d) if the issuer proposes to create a charge or security on its assets in respect of secured
   convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that:
   (i) such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times;
   (ii) such assets are free from any encumbrance;
   (iii) where security is already created on such assets in favour of any existing lender or
       security trustee or the issue of convertible debt instruments is proposed to be secured by
       creation of security on a leasehold land, the consent of such lender or security trustee or
       lessor for a second or pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted to the debenture
       trustee before the opening of the issue;
   (iv) the security or asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a first
       or prior charge, in case the convertible debt instruments are secured by a second or
       subsequent charge.
(2) The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments in terms of the letter of offer.


Roll over of non-convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments
64. (1) The non-convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments issued by a listed
issuer, the value of which exceeds ten crore rupees, may be rolled over, subject to compliance
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the following conditions:
(a) seventy five per cent. of the holders (in value) of the convertible debt instruments of the
     issuer have, through a resolution, approved the rollover through postal ballot;
(b) the issuer has, along with the notice for passing the resolution, sent to all holders of the
     convertible debt instruments, an auditors’ certificate on the cash flow of the issuer and with
     comments on the liquidity position of the issuer;
(c) the issuer has undertaken to redeem the non-convertible portion of the partly convertible
     debt instruments of all the holders of the convertible debt instruments who have not agreed
     to the resolution;



                                                  63
(d) credit rating has been obtained from at least one credit rating agency registered with the
     Board within a period of one month prior to the due date of redemption and has been
     communicated to the holders of the convertible debt instruments, before the roll over;
(3) The creation of fresh security and execution of fresh trust deed shall not be mandatory if the
existing trust deed or the security documents provide for continuance of the security till
redemption of secured convertible debt instruments:
Provided that whether the issuer is required to create fresh security and to execute fresh trust deed
or not shall be decided by the debenture trustee.


Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares
65. (1) An issuer shall not convert its optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares
unless the holders of such convertible debt instruments have sent their positive consent to the
issuer and non-receipt of reply to any notice sent by the issuer for this purpose shall not be
construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.
(2) Where the value of the convertible portion of any listed convertible debt instruments issued by
an issuer exceeds ten crores and the issuer has not determined the conversion price of such
convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible debt
instruments shall be given the option of not converting the convertible portion into equity shares:
Provided that where the upper limit on the price of such convertible debt instruments and
justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of making the issue, it
shall not be necessary to give such option to the holders of the convertible debt instruments for
converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said upper limit
(3) Where an option is to be given to the holders of the convertible debt instruments in terms of
sub-regulation (2) and if one or more of such holders do not exercise the option to convert the
instruments into equity share capital at a price determined in the general meeting of the
shareholders, the issuer shall redeem that part of the instruments within one month from the last
date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value.
Provided that the provisions of sub-regulation (3) shall not apply if such redemption is in terms of
the disclosures made in the offer document.


Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing
66. An issuer shall not issue convertible debt instruments for financing or for providing loans to
or for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the promoter group or group companies:




                                                    64
Provided that an issuer shall be eligible to issue fully convertible debt instruments for these
purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments is less than eighteen months from
the date of issue of such debt instruments.


Issue of warrants
67. An issuer shall be eligible to issue warrants subject to the following:
a) the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed eighteen months from their date of allotment in
   the rights issue;
b) a specified security may have one or more warrants attached to it;
c) the price or formula for determination of exercise price of the warrants shall be determined
   upfront and disclosed in the letter of offer and at least twenty-five per cent. of the
   consideration amount based on the exercise price shall also be received upfront;
   Provided that in case the exercise price of warrants is based on a formula, twenty-five per
   cent. consideration amount calculated as per the formula with reference date being the record
   date shall be received upfront.
d) in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of the
   warrants held by the warrant holder, within three months from the date of payment of
   consideration, such consideration made in respect of such warrants shall be forfeited by the
   issuer.


PART III: RECORD DATE
68. (1) The issuer shall announce a record date for the purpose of determining the shareholders
eligible to apply for specified securities in the proposed rights issue for such period as may be
specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(2) The issuer shall not withdraw its rights issue after announcement of the record date. However,
if the issuer withdraws the rights issue after announcing the record date, it shall not be eligible to
make an application for listing of any of its specified securities on any stock exchange for a period
of twelve months from the record date announced under sub-regulation (1):
Provided that the issuer may seek listing of its equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion or
exchange of convertible securities, ESOPs or exercise of warrants issued prior to the
announcement of the record date, on the stock exchange where its securities are listed.




                                                 65
      PART IV – 126[APPOINTMENT OF 127[*] INTERMEDIARIES]
      69. (1) 128[***]
            (2) 129[***]
            (3) 130[***]
131
      [(4) The issuer shall appoint intermediaries which are registered with the Board after assessing the
      capability of intermediaries to carry out their obligations.]
      (5) The issuer shall enter into an agreement with the 132[***] intermediaries as required under the
      respective regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned:
      Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the intermediaries
      may deem fit without diminishing or limiting in any way the liabilities and obligations of the
      133
            [**] intermediaries and the issuer under the Act, the Companies Act, 2013 134[***], the
      Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules and
      regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof:

      126
          Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
      w.e.f. 28.09.2020. Prior to its substitution, it read as “APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER
      INTERMEDIARIES AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER”.
      127
          The words “LEAD MANAGERS AND OTHER” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India
      (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
      128
          Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
      08.04.2025. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation (1) read as under,-

               “(1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with the Board, as lead
               manager(s) to the issue.”
      129
          Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
      08.04.2025. Prior to the omission, the sub-regulation (2) read as under,-

               “(2) Where the issue is managed by more than one lead manager, the rights, obligations and responsibilities,
               relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if any, of each lead manager
               shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft letter offer and the letter of offer as specified in Schedule
               I:”
      130
          Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
      08.04.2025. Prior to the omission, sub-regulation (3) read as under,-

               “(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities and
               Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of the lead manager
               is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to
               marketing of the issue.”
      131
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (4) read as under,-

               “(4) The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other intermediaries which are
               registered with the Board after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed the capability of other
               intermediaries to carry out their obligations.”
      132
          The words, symbols and numerals “lead manager(s) in the format specified in Schedule II and also enter into
      agreements with other” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
      Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
      133
          The words and symbols “lead manager(s), other” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India
      (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
      134
          The words, numbers, and symbols “or the Companies Act, 1956 (to the extent applicable)” omitted by the
      Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
      2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                                   66
      Provided further that in case of ASBA process, the issuer shall take cognisance of the deemed
      agreement of the issuer with the self-certified syndicate banks.
      (6) The issuer shall appoint bankers to an issue, at centres as specified in Schedule XII.
      (7) The issuer shall appoint a registrar to the issue registered with the Board, which has
      connectivity with all the depositories:
      Provided that if the issuer itself is a registrar, it shall not appoint itself as a registrar to the
      issue135[:]
136
      [***]
      (8) 137[***]


      PART V: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF LETTERS OF OFFER


      Disclosures in the draft letter of offer and letter of offer
      70. (1) The draft letter of offer and letter of offer shall contain all material disclosures which are
      true and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
      (2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the draft letter of offer and letter of
      offer shall contain disclosures as specified in 138[Part B of Schedule VI].
      (3) 139[***]
      (4) 140[***]



      135
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the symbol “;”.
      136
          Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
      08.04.2025. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under,-

                “Provided further that a lead manager shall not act as a registrar to the issue in which it is also handling the
                post-issue responsibilities.”
      137
          Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
      w.e.f. 28.09.2020. Prior to its omission, it read as:
      “(8) The issuer shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the
      securities laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances.”.
      138
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words, symbols and figures “Part B or Part B-1 of
      Schedule VI, as applicable”.
      139
          Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (3) read as under,-

              “(3) The lead manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves about all aspects of the issue
              including the veracity and adequacy of disclosure in the draft letter of offer and the letter of offer.”
      140
          Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (4) read as under,-

               “(4) The lead manager(s) shall call upon the issuer, its promoters and its directors to fulfil their obligations
               as disclosed by them in the draft letter of offer and letter of offer and as required in terms of these
               Regulations.”

                                                                 67
  (5) The 141[issuer] shall ensure that the information contained in the draft letter of offer and letter
  of offer and the particulars as per audited financial statements in the letter of offer are not more
  than six months old from the issue opening date.
  (6) An issuer shall make disclosures in the draft letter of offer 142[and letter of offer], if the issuer
  or any of its promoters or directors is a 143[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower].
  144
        [(7) In the letter of offer 145[***], the issuer shall disclose the process of credit of rights
  entitlements in the demat account and renunciation thereof.]


146[Filing of the draft letter of offer and letter of offer




  141
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbols “lead manager(s)”.
  142
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “, letter of offer and abridged letter of
  offer”.
  143
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
  144
      Omitted by by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2019
  w.e.f. 26.12.2019.
  145
      The words “and the abridged letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
  146
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 71 read as under:

             “Filing of the draft letter of offer and letter of offer
             71. (1) Prior to making a rights issue, the issuer shall, except in case of a fast track issue, file a draft letter of
             offer, with the Board, in accordance with Schedule IV, along with fees as specified in Schedule III, with
             the Board and with the stock exchange(s), through the lead manager(s).
             Provided that the issuer shall, in case of fast track issue, file a letter of offer and pay fees as specified in
             Schedule III with the Board.
             (2) The lead manager(s) shall submit the following to the Board along with the draft letter of offer:
                       a)        a certificate, confirming that an agreement has been entered into between the issuer and the
                                 lead manager(s) and includes content specified in Schedule II;
                       b)        a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V;
                       c)        in case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate from the
                                 debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V;
                       d)        A certificate confirming compliance of the conditions specified in Part F of Schedule VI,
                                 if applicable.
             (3) The issuer shall also file the draft letter of offer with the stock exchange(s) and shall submit to such
             stock exchange(s), the Permanent Account Number, bank account number and passport number of its
             promoters where they are individuals, and Permanent Account Number, bank account number, company
             registration number or equivalent and the address of the Registrar of Companies with which the promoter is
             registered, where the promoter is a body corporate.
             (4) The Board may specify changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft letter of offer within thirty
             days from the later of the following dates:
                       (a) the date of receipt of the draft letter of offer, as applicable, under sub-regulation (1); or
                       (b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead manager(s), where the Board has sought
                       any clarification or additional information from them; or
                       (c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the Board
                       has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or
                       (d) the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock exchanges.
             (5) If the Board specifies any changes or issues observations on the draft letter of offer the issuer and lead
             manager(s) shall carry out such changes in the draft letter of offer and shall submit to the Board an updated

                                                                 68
71. (1) The issuer shall file the draft letter of offer with the stock exchange(s) and shall submit to
such stock exchange(s) the following:
     a. the Permanent Account Number, bank account number and passport number of its
         promoters where they are individuals, and Permanent Account Number, bank account
         number, company registration number or equivalent, and the address of the Registrar of
         Companies with which the promoter is registered, where the promoter is a body corporate,
     b. in case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate from
         the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V.
(2) The issuer shall file letter of offer with the stock exchanges/ the designated stock exchange.
(3) The issuer shall file a letter of offer with the Board for information and dissemination on
Board’s website along with fees specified in Schedule III.]




Draft letter of offer and letter of offer to be available to the public
72. (1) 147[***]
(2) 148[***]



        draft letter of offer complying with the observations issued by the Board and highlighting all changes made
        in the draft letter of offer before filing the letter of offer with the stock exchanges.
        (6) If there are any changes in the draft letter of offer in relation to the matters specified in Schedule XVI, an
        updated letter of offer or a fresh draft letter of offer, as the case may be, shall be filed with the Board along
        with fees specified in Schedule III.
        (7) The lead manager(s) shall submit the following documents to the Board after issuance of observations by
        the Board or after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (4) of regulation 71 if the Board has not
        issued observations:
                  (a) a statement certifying that all changes, suggestions and observations made by the Board have
                  been incorporated in the letter of offer;
                  (b) a due diligence certificate as per Form C of Schedule V, at the time of submission of the letter of
                  offer with stock exchange(s);
                  (c) a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule V, in the event the issuer has made a
                  disclosure of any material development by issuing a public notice.
        (8) Copy of the letter of offer shall also be filed with the Board and the stock exchanges through the lead
        manager simultaneously with filing of the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange.
        (9) The draft letter of offer and letter of offer shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft copy.”
147
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (1) read as under,-

        “(1) The draft letter of offer filed with the Board shall be made public for comments, if any, for a period of at
        least twenty one days from the date of filing, by hosting it on the websites of the issuer, the Board, stock
        exchanges where specified securities are proposed to be listed and the lead manager(s) associated with the
        issue.”
148
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (2) read as under,-

         “(2) The issuer shall, within two days of filing of the draft letter of offer with the Board, make a public
         announcement in one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily
         newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language newspaper with wide circulation at the place
         where the registered office of the issuer is situated, disclosing to the public the fact of filing of the draft letter

                                                             69
(3) 149[***]
(4) The 150[issuer shall ensure that the draft letter of offer and letter of offer] are hosted on the
websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed
with the Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable.
(5) The 151[***] stock exchanges shall provide copies of the draft letter of offer to the public as
and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of the same.


PART VI: PRICING
73. (1) The issuer shall decide the issue price 152[***] before determining the record date, which
shall be determined in consultation with the designated stock exchange.
(2) The issue price shall not be less than the face value of the specified securities.
(3) The issuer shall disclose the issue price in the letter of offer filed with the Board and the stock
exchange(s).


PART VII: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE


Reservations
74. (1) The issuer shall make a rights issue of equity shares only if it has made reservation of
equity shares of the same class in favour of the holders of outstanding compulsorily convertible
debt instruments, if any, in proportion to the convertible part thereof.
(2) The equity shares so reserved for the holders of fully or partly compulsorily convertible debt
instruments shall be issued to the holder of such convertible debt instruments 153[***] at the time
of conversion of such convertible debt instruments, on the same terms at which the equity shares
offered in the rights issue were issued.



        of offer with the Board and inviting the public to provide their comments to the Board, the issuer or to the
        lead manager(s) in respect of the disclosures made in the draft letter of offer.”
149
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (3) read as under,-

         “(3) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with the Board,
         details of the comments received by them or the issuer from the public, on the draft offer document, during
         that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to be made in the draft offer document.”
150
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbols “issuer and the lead manager(s) shall
ensure that the letters of offer”.
151
    The words and symbols “lead manager(s) and the” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue
of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
152
    The words and symbols “, in consultation with the lead manager(s),” omitted by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
153
    The words “or warrants” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                           70
154
      [Provided that for the purposes of offering such rights entitlements, the issuer company shall
not be required to credit rights entitlements.]
(3) 155[***]


156[Letter] of offer


75. (1) 157[***]
(2) Every application form distributed by the issuer or any other person in relation to the issue
shall be accompanied by a copy of the 158[**] letter of offer.


159[ASBA.


76. An applicant to the rights issue shall do so only through the ASBA facility, which facility
shall be provided by the issuer in the manner specified by the Board:
Provided that payment through any other electronic banking mode shall be permitted in respect of
an application made for any reserved portion outside the issue period.]


Availability of letter of offer and other issue materials




154
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
w.e.f. 28.09.2020.
155
     Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (3) read as under,-

         “(3) Subject to other applicable provision of these regulations, the issuer may make reservation for its
         employees along with rights issue subject to the condition that the value of allotment to any employee shall
         not exceed two lakhs rupees.
                  Provided that in the event of under-subscription in the employee reservation portion, the
         unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of two lakhs rupees,
         subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs rupees.”
156
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words “Abridged letter”.
157
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (1) read as under,-

         “(1) The abridged letter of offer shall contain the disclosures as specified by the Board in Part F of
         Schedule VI and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the letter of offer.”
158
    The word “abridged” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
159
    Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f. 26.12.2019. Prior to its substitution, Reg. 76 read as follows,-
         “ASBA
         76. The issuer shall provide the ASBA facility in the manner specified by the Board where not more than
         one payment option is provided.
         Provided that the applicants in a rights issue shall be eligible to make applications through ASBA facility
         only if such applicant: (i) is holding equity shares in dematerialised mode; (ii) has not renounced entitlement
         in part or in full; and (iii) is not a renouncee.
         Provided further that payment made for application for any reserved portion outside the issue period can be
         through electronic banking modes.”

                                                          71
  77. (1) The 160[issuer] shall ensure availability of the letter of offer and other issue material
  including application forms with stock exchanges, registrar to issue, registrar and share transfer
  agents, depository participants, stock brokers, underwriters, bankers to the issue, investors‘
  associations and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue.
  (2) The 161[***] letter of offer, along with application form, shall be despatched through registered
  post or speed post or by courier service or by electronic transmission to all the existing
  shareholders at least three days before the date of opening of the issue.
  (3) The letter of offer shall also be provided by the issuer 162[***] to any existing shareholder who
  makes a request in this regard.


  163[Credit of rights entitlements and allotment of specified securities.


  77A. (1) The rights entitlements shall be credited to the demat account of the shareholders before
  the date of opening of the issue.
  (2) Allotment of specified securities shall be made in the dematerialised form only.]


164[Allotment to Specific Investors


  77B. (1) For the purpose of this chapter, specific investor would mean any investor who is eligible
  to participate in rights issue of the issuer and-
          (a) whose name has been disclosed by the issuer in terms of sub-clause (i) of clause (f) of
          sub-regulation (1) of regulation 84 of these regulations;
          (b) whose name has been disclosed by the issuer in terms of sub-clause (ii) of clause (f) of
          sub-regulation (1) of regulation 84 of these regulations.
  (2) The application by the specific investor(s) in terms of clause (a) shall be made on the first day
  of issue opening before 11 A.M. and the issuer shall disclose to the stock exchange(s) whether
  such specific investor(s) have made the application or not, for dissemination on the first day of
  issue opening by 11:30 A.M.
  (3) No withdrawal of the application(s) shall be permitted when the application by the specific
  investor(s) is received in terms of clause (a).

  160
       Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbols “lead manager(s)”.
  161
      The word “abridged” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
  Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
  162
      The words and symbols “or lead manager(s)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
  163
      Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f.
  26.12.2019.
  164
       Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.



                                                         72
(4) The application in terms of clause (b) shall be made by the specific investor(s) along with the
application money before the finalisation of basis of allotment.]


Conditions for making applications on plain paper
78. (1) Shareholders who have not received the application form may make an application in
writing on a plain paper, along with the requisite application money.
165
      [Provided that SCSBs shall accept such application forms only if all details required for making
the application as per these regulations are specified in the plain paper application.]
(2) Shareholders making an application on plain paper shall not be entitled to renounce their rights
and shall not utilise the application form for any purpose including renunciation even if it is
received subsequently.
(3) If a shareholder makes an application both in an application form as well as on a plain paper,
both applications are liable to be rejected.


Prohibition on payment of incentives
79. Any person connected with the issue, shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect,
in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any person for making an
application in the rights issue, except for fees or commission for services rendered in relation to
the issue.


166[***]




Underwriting
81. (1) If the issuer desires to have the issue underwritten, 167[it shall appoint merchant bankers or
stock brokers, registered with the Board, to act as underwriters:]



165
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
w.e.f. 28.09.2020.
166
     Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. Prior to its omission, Regulation 80 read as follows-
          “Security deposit
          80. (1) The issuer shall, before the opening of the subscription list, deposit with the designated stock
          exchange, an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the issue size in the manner specified by the
          Board and/or stock exchange(s).
          (2) The amount specified in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by
          the Board.”
167
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words, numbers and symbols “it shall appoint underwriters
in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993.”.

                                                         73
Provided that the issue can be underwritten only to the extent of entitlement of shareholders other
than the promoters and promoter group.
(2) 168[***]


Monitoring agency
          169
82. (1)         [The] issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be
monitored by a 170[credit rating agency registered with the Board:]
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made by a
bank or public financial institution or an insurance company.
(2) The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule
XI on a quarterly basis, till 171[hundred per cent]. of the proceeds of the issue 172[actually
raised]173[***] have been utilised.
(3) The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the
findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publicly disseminate the
report of the monitoring agency by uploading the same on its website as well as submitting the
same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed.


Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports.
83. All public communication, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports shall
comply with the provisions of Schedule IX.


Issue-related advertisements


168
   Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (2) read as under,-

          “(2) In case of every underwritten issue, the lead manager(s) shall undertake minimum underwriting
          obligations as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations,
          1992.”
169
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “If the issue size exceeds one hundred
crore rupees, the”.
170
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbol “public financial institution or by a
scheduled commercial bank named in the letter of offer as a banker of the issuer:”.
171
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “at least ninety five per cent”.
172
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
w.e.f. 28.09.2020.
173
     The words and symbols “, excluding the proceeds raised for general corporate purposes,” omitted by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                      74
84. (1) The issuer shall issue an advertisement in at least one English national daily newspaper
with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional
language daily newspaper with wide circulation, at the place where registered office of the issuer
is situated 174[and also give an intimation to the stock exchanges for dissemination on their
websites], at least 175[two] days before the date of opening of the issue, disclosing the following:
      a) the date of completion of despatch of 176[**] letter of offer and the application form;
      b) the centres other than registered office of the issuer where the shareholders or the persons
           entitled to receive the rights entitlements may obtain duplicate copies of the application
           form in case they do not receive the application form within a reasonable time after
           opening of the rights issue;
           177
      c)         [a statement that if the shareholders entitled to receive the rights entitlements have
           neither received the original application forms nor are in a position to obtain the form;
           they may make an application through the form available on the website of Registrar,
           stock exchanges 178[**] or in writing on a plain paper to subscribe to the Rights Issue
           along with a format specifying therein the necessary particulars such as name, address,
           ratio of rights issue, issue price, number of equity shares held, ledger folio numbers,
           depository participant ID, client ID, number of equity shares entitled and applied for,
           additional shares if any, and the amount to be blocked with SCSB along with the
           application];
      d) 179[***]




174
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f.
26.12.2019.
175
    Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2019 for
the word “three”, w.e.f. 26.12.2019.
176
    The words “abridged” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
177
    Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
w.e.f. 28.09.2020. Prior to substitution clause (c) read as follows,-
          “a statement that if the shareholders entitled to receive the rights entitlements have neither received the
          original application forms nor they are in a position to obtain the duplicate form, they may make application
          in writing on a plain paper to subscribe to the rights issue along with a format specifying therein necessary
          particulars such as name, address, ratio of rights issue, issue price, number of equity shares held, ledger folio
          numbers, depository participant ID, client ID, number of equity shares entitled and applied for, additional
          shares if any, amount to be paid along with application, and particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour
          of the issuer‘s account”
178
    The words “or lead managers” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
179
    Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
w.e.f. 28.09.2020. Prior to its omission, it read as:
“(d) a statement that the applications can be directly sent by the shareholders through registered post together with the
application monies to the issuer's designated official at the address given in the advertisement;”.

                                                           75
         e) a statement to the effect that if the shareholder makes an application using the application
             form as well as plain paper, both the applications shall be liable to be rejected at the option
             of the issuer.
   180
         [f) details of the specific investor(s):
             i.   name of the specific investor(s) (i.e. renouncees), name of the promoter(s)/promoter
                  group (i.e. renouncer) and number of rights entitlements renounced, where the
                  promoter(s)/promoter group is renouncing their rights entitlements in terms of sub-
                  regulation (3) of regulation 62 and clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 86 of
                  these Regulations;
            ii.   name of the specific investor(s), where the issuer intends to allot any under-subscribed
                  portion of rights issue in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 90 of
                  these regulations.]
  (2) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving
  an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed, or indicating investors’
  response to the issue.
  (3) An announcement regarding closure of issue shall be made only after the 181[issuer] is satisfied
  that at least ninety per cent. of the offer through letter of offer has been subscribed and a
  certificate has been obtained to that effect from the registrar to the issue:
  Provided that such an announcement shall not be made before the date on which the issue is to be
  closed except for issue closing advertisement made in the format prescribed in these regulations.


182[Opening of the issue


  85. Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a rights issue may
  be opened within such period as may be specified by the Board from time to time.]


  Minimum subscription




  180
      Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
  181
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
  182
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its substitution, Regulation 85 read as under,-

             “Opening of the issue
             85. Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a rights issue may be opened
             within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board under regulation 71.
                      Provided that in case of a fast track issue, the issue shall open within twelve months from the record
             date.”

                                                              76
 86. (1) The minimum subscription to be received in the issue shall be at least ninety per cent. of
 the offer through the offer document.
183
      [Provided that minimum subscription criteria shall not be applicable to an issuer if:
                    (a)    the object of the issue involves financing other than financing of capital
                           expenditure for a project; and
                    (b)    the promoters and the promoter group of the issuer undertake to subscribe
                           fully to their portion of rights entitlement and do not renounce their rights
                           except to the extent of renunciation within the promoter group 184[or to the
                           specific investor(s) as disclosed by the issuer in terms of these
                           regulations].]

 (2) In the event of non-receipt of minimum subscription referred to in sub-regulation (1), all
 application monies received shall be refunded to the applicants forthwith, but not later than
 185
       [four days] from the closure of the issue.


 Period of subscription
 87. The rights issue shall be kept open for subscription for 186[such period as may be specified by
 the Board from time to time]187[and no withdrawal of application shall be permitted after the issue
 closing date].


 Payment options
 88. The issuer shall give one of the following payment options to all the shareholders for each
 type of instrument:
 a)       part payment on application with balance money to be paid in calls; or
 b)       full payment on application:
 Provided that the part payment, if any, on application shall not be less than twenty five per cent.
 of the issue price and such issuer shall obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to facilitate the
 same:


 183
     Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
 w.e.f. 28.09.2020.
 184
      Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
 185
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “fifteen days”.
 186
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words “a minimum period of seven days and for a
 maximum period of thirty days”.
 187
     Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f.
 26.12.2019.

                                                        77
188
      [Provided further that payment of balance money in calls, outside the issue period, may be
through electronic banking modes.]


Manner of calls
89. If the issuer proposes to receive subscription monies in calls, it shall ensure that the
outstanding subscription money is called within twelve months from the date of allotment in the
issue and if any applicant fails to pay the call money within the said twelve months, the equity
shares on which there are calls in arrear along with the subscription money already paid on such
shares shall be forfeited:
Provided further that it shall not be necessary to call the outstanding subscription money within
twelve months, if the issuer has appointed a monitoring agency in terms of regulation 82.


Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
90. (1) The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered through
the letter of offer189[, except as provided in regulation 74(1) and (2)].
(2) Allotment shall be made in the following manner:
       a) Full allotment to those eligible shareholders who have applied for their rights entitlement
          either in full or in part and also to the renouncee(s), who has/have applied for the specified
          securities renounced in their favour, in full or in part, as adjusted for fractional entitlement
       b) Allotment to eligible shareholders who having applied for the specified securities in full to
          the extent of their rights entitlement and have also applied for additional specified
          securities, shall be made as far as possible on an equitable basis having due regard to the
          number of specified securities held by them on the record date, provided there is an under-
          subscribed portion after making allotment in (a) above.
       c) Allotment to the renouncees, who having applied for the specified securities renounced in
          their favour and also applied for additional specified securities, provided there is an under-
          subscribed portion after making full allotment specified in (a) and (b) above. The
          allotment of such additional specified securities may be made on a proportionate basis.
190
      [d) Allotment to any specific investor(s) disclosed by the issuer in terms of these regulations
          before opening of the issue, provided that there is an under-subscribed portion after
          making full allotment as per clauses (a), (b) and (c).]



188
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f.
26.12.2019.
189
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
w.e.f. 28.09.2020.

                                                       78
(3) The authorised employees of the designated stock exchange along with the 191[***] registrars
to the issue shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner as may
be prescribed by the Board.


Allotment, refund and payment of interest
91. (1) The issuer 192[***] shall ensure that the specified securities are allotted and/or application
monies are refunded or unblocked within such period as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The 193[issuer] shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities, refunding or
unblocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(3) Where the specified securities are not allotted and/or application monies are not refunded or
unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to
pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum to the shareholders within such time as
disclosed in the draft letter of offer and the letter of offer 194[***].


Post-issue advertisements
92. (1) The 195[issuer] shall ensure that an advertisement giving details relating to subscription,
basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of all applications including ASBA, number,
value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA, date of
completion of despatch of refund orders, as applicable, or instructions to self- certified syndicate
banks by the Registrar, date of despatch of certificates or date of credit of specified securities, as
applicable, and date of filing of listing application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of
completion of the various activities in at least one English national daily newspaper with wide
circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language
daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2) Details specified in sub regulation (1) shall also be placed on the websites of the stock
exchanges where the securities are listed.




190
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
191
    The words and symbols “lead manager(s) and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
192
    The words and symbols “and lead manager(s)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
193
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
194
    The words and symbols “and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same” omitted by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
195
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.

                                                      79
Post-issue responsibilities 196[***]
93. (1) 197[***]
(2) The 198[designated stock exchange] shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances
arising from any issue related activities.
(3) The 199[issuer] shall continue to be responsible for post-issue activities till the applicants have
received 200[***], credit to their demat account or refund of application monies and 201[***]
listing or trading permission is obtained.
(4) The 202[issuer] shall be responsible for and co-ordinate with the registrars to the issue and with
various intermediaries at regular intervals after the closure of the issue to monitor the flow of
applications from 203[***] self-certified syndicate banks, processing of the applications including
application form for ASBA and other matters till the basis of allotment is finalised, 204[***] credit
of the specified securities to the dematerialised accounts of the allottees, as applicable and
unblocking of ASBA accounts/ despatch of refund orders are completed and securities are listed,
as applicable.
(5) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the
205
      [designated stock exchange] shall be duly reported by them to the Board.
(6) In case there is a devolvement on underwriters, the 206[designated stock exchange] shall ensure
that the notice for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within ten
days from the date of closure of the issue.


196
    The words and symbols “of the lead manager(s)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
197
     Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (1) read as under,-

         “(1) The responsibility of the lead manager(s) shall continue until completion of the issue process and for
         any issue related matter thereafter.”
198
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
199
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
200
    The words “the securities certificates” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
201
    The words “the listing agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange and” omitted by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
202
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
203
    Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
w.e.f. 28.09.2020. Prior to omission it read as “collecting bank branches and/ or”.
204
    Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
w.e.f. 28.09.2020. Prior to omission it read as “despatch of security certificates or”.
205
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
206
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.

                                                        80
  (7) In case of undersubscribed issues that are underwritten, the 207[designated stock exchange]
  shall furnish information to the Board in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their
  underwriting devolvement in the format specified in Schedule XVIII.


  Release of subscription money
  94. (1) The 208[issuer] shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing and
  trading approvals that all formalities in connection with the issue have been completed and that
  the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of
  failure of the issue.
  (2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where
  the specified securities were listed, it shall refund through verifiable means the entire monies
  received within 209[four days] of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the
  application for listing of specified securities, and if any such money is not repaid within 210[four
  days] after the issuer becomes liable to repay it the issuer and every director of the company who
  is an officer in default shall, on and from the expiry of the 211[fourth day], be jointly and severally
  liable to repay that money with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
  (3) The 212[designated stock exchange] shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the
  rights issue are released to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of sub-section (3) of
  section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable.


213[Reporting   of transactions of the promoters and promoter group and other pre-issue
  transactions



  207
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
  208
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
  209
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “seven days”.
  210
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eight days”.
  211
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eighth day”.
  212
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
  213
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 95 read as under,-

          “Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group
          95. The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter group between
          the date of filing of the draft letter of offer or letter of offer, as the case may be, and the date of closure of the
          issue shall be reported to the stock exchanges where the specified securities of the issuer are to be listed,
          within twenty four hours of such transactions.”

                                                              81
95. (1) The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter
group between the date of filing of draft letter of offer or letter of offer, as the case may be, and
the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty-four
hours of such transactions.


(2) The issuer shall also ensure that any proposed pre-issue placement disclosed in the draft letter
of offer shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty-four hours of such pre-issue
transactions (in part or in entirety).]


Post-issue reports
96. The 214[issuer] shall submit post-issue reports as follows:
a)    initial post-issue report as specified in Part B of Schedule XVII, within three working days
      of closure of the issue;
b)    final post-issue report as specified in Part C of Schedule XVII, within fifteen days of the
      date of finalization of basis of allotment or within fifteen days of refund of money in case of
      failure of the issue.


PART VIII: MISCELLEANEOUS


Restriction on further capital issues
97. An issuer shall not make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether by
way of public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of
bonus shares or otherwise, except pursuant to an employee stock option scheme 215[or a stock
appreciation right scheme]:
      216
a)          [***]
      217
b)          [***] during the period between the date of filing the draft letter of offer with the 218[stock
      exchanges(s)] and the listing of the specified securities offered through the letter of offer or
      refund of application monies;


214
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the words and symbol “lead manager(s)”.
215
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
216
    Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
08.04.2025. Prior to the omission, clause (a) read as under:

        “a) in case of a fast track issue, during the period between the date of filing the letter of offer with the stock
        exchanges where the securities are proposed to be listed and the listing of the specified securities offered
        through the letter of offer or refund of application monies; or.”

                                                          82
unless full disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities or amount proposed to be
raised from such further issue are made in such draft letter of offer or letter of offer, as the case
may be.


Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities
98. The issuer shall not alter the terms (including the terms of issue) of specified securities which
may adversely affect the interests of the holders of those specified securities, except with the
consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths of the specified securities of that
class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified
securities of that class.


PART IX: FAST TRACK RIGHTS ISSUE


219
      [***]


217
    The words and symbol “in case of other issues,” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
218
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the word “Board”.
219
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. Prior to its omission, Regulation 99 read as under,-
         “Eligibility conditions
         99. (1) Unless otherwise specified, nothing contained in sub-regulations (1), (2), (4) and (5) of regulation 71
         shall apply if the issuer satisfies the following conditions for making a rights issue through the fast track
         route -
         a)        the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on any stock exchange for a period of at least three
         years immediately preceding the reference date;
         b)        the entire shareholding of the promoter group of the issuer is held in dematerialised form on the
         reference date;
         c)        the average market capitalisation of public shareholding of the issuer is at least two hundred and
         fifty crore rupees in at least one of the recognized stock exchanges with nationwide trading terminal, where
         its securities are listed;
         d)        the annualised trading turnover of the equity shares of the issuer during six calendar months
         immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least two per cent. of the weighted
         average number of equity shares listed during such six months‘ period:
         Provided that for issuers, whose public shareholding is less than fifteen per cent. of its issued equity capital,
         the annualised trading turnover of its equity shares has been at least two per cent. of the weighted average
         number of equity shares available as free float during such six months‘ period;
         e)        the annualized delivery-based trading turnover of the equity shares during six calendar months
         immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least ten per cent. of the annualized
         trading turnover of equity shares during such six months‘ period;
         f)        the issuer has been in compliance with the equity listing agreement or the Securities and Exchange
         Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as applicable, for a
         period of at least three years immediately preceding the reference date:
         Provided that if the issuer has not complied with the provisions of the listing agreement or the Securities and
         Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as
         applicable, relating to composition of board of directors, for any quarter during the last three years
         immediately preceding the reference date, but is compliant with such provisions at the time of filing of letter
         of offer, and adequate disclosures are made in the letter of offer about such non-compliances during the three
         years immediately preceding the reference date, it shall be deemed as compliance with the condition;

                                                           83
220
      [***]




          Provided further that imposition of only monetary fines by stock exchanges on the issuer shall not be a
          ground for ineligibility for undertaking issuances under this regulation;
          g)         the issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the investors
          till the end of the quarter immediately preceding the month of the reference date;
          h)          that no show-cause notices, excluding proceedings for imposition of penalty, have been issued by
          the Board and pending against the issuer or its promoters or whole-time directors as on the reference date.;
          In cases where against the issuer or its promoters or whole-time directors,
          i) show-cause notice(s) has been issued by the Board or the Adjudicating Officer, in a proceeding for
          imposition of penalty; or
          ii) prosecution proceedings have been initiated by the Board;
          necessary disclosures in respect of such action(s) along-with its potential adverse impact on the issuer shall
          be made in the letter of offer.;
          i)          if the issuer or the promoter or the promoter group or the director of the issuer has settled any
          alleged violations of securities laws through the settlement mechanism of the Board in the past three years
          immediately preceding the reference date, then the disclosure of such compliance of the settlement order,
          shall be made in the letter of offer;
          j)         the equity shares of the issuer have not been suspended from trading as a disciplinary measure
          during last three years immediately preceding the reference date;
          k)         there shall be no conflict of interest between the lead manager(s) and the issuer or its group
          companies in accordance with the applicable regulations.
          l)         the promoters and promoter group shall mandatorily subscribe to their rights entitlement and shall
          not renounce their rights, except to the extent of renunciation within the promoter group or for the purpose of
          complying with minimum public shareholding norms prescribed under the Securities Contracts (Regulation)
          Rules, 1957;
          m)          for audit qualifications, if any, in respect of any of the financial years for which accounts are
          disclosed in the letter of offer, the issuer shall provide the restated financial statements adjusting for the
          impact of the audit qualifications.
          Further, [***] for the qualifications wherein impact on the financials cannot be ascertained the same shall be
          disclosed appropriately in the letter of offer.

         Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation:
         (i) “average market capitalisation of public shareholding” means the sum of daily market capitalisation of
         public shareholding for a period of one year up to the end of the quarter preceding the month in which the
         proposed issue was approved by the shareholders or the board of the issuer, as the case may be, divided by
         the number of trading days.
         (ii) “public shareholding” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities Contracts
         (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
         (iii) “reference date” means the date of filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange.
         (iv) “audit qualifications” for this regulation shall be those disclosed under applicable accounting standard
         relating to modification to the opinion in the independent auditor’s report and requires a qualified opinion,
         adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion for material misstatements.”
220
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its omission, Regulation 100 read as under,-
         “Issue conditions
         100. (1) The issuer shall file the letter of offer in accordance with sub-regulation 8 and 9 of
         regulation 71 and shall pay fees to the Board as specified in Schedule III.
         (2) The lead manager(s) shall submit to the Board, the following documents along with the letter of offer:
                 (a) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V including additional confirmations
                     as specified in Form E of Schedule V;
                 (b) in case of a fast track issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate
                     from the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V.”

                                                           84
                             CHAPTER IV - FURTHER PUBLIC OFFER


PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS


Reference date
101. Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an issuer making a further public offer of
specified securities shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing of the draft
offer document with the Board and also as on the date of 221[filing] the offer document with the
Registrar of Companies.


Entities not eligible to make a further public offer
102. An issuer shall not be eligible to make a further public offer:
(a) if the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors, selling shareholders are
        debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board;
(b) if any of the promoters or directors of the issuer is a promoter or director of any other
        company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board;
(c) if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a 222[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
        borrower];
(d) if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender.
Explanation: The restrictions under (a) and (b) above shall not apply to the persons or entities
mentioned therein, who were debarred in the past by the Board and the period of debarment is
already over as on the date of filing of the draft offer document with the Board.


Eligibility requirements for further public offer
      103. 223[(1) An issuer shall be eligible to make a further public offer, if it has not changed its
      name in the last one year period immediately preceding the date of filing the relevant offer
      document:


221
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
222
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
223
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulations (1) and (2) read as
follows:
         “(1) An issuer may make a further public offer, if it has changed its name within the last one year, at
         least fifty per cent. of the revenue for the preceding one full year has been earned by it from the activity
         indicated by its new name.

                                                         85
           Provided that if an issuer has changed its name in the last one year period immediately
       preceding the date of filing the relevant offer document, such an issuer shall make further
       public offer if at least fifty per cent. of the revenue for the preceding one full year has been
       earned by it from the activity indicated by its new name.
       (2) An issuer not satisfying the condition stipulated in the proviso to sub-regulation (1), shall
       make a further public offer only if the issue is made through the book building process and
       the issuer undertakes to allot at least seventy five per cent. of the net offer, to qualified
       institutional buyers and to refund full subscription money if it fails to make the said minimum
       allotment to qualified institutional buyers.]


General conditions
104. (1) An issuer making a further public offer shall ensure that -
(a) it has made an application to one or more stock exchanges to seek an in-principle approval
         for listing of its specified securities on such stock exchanges and has chosen one of them as
         the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX;
(b) it has entered into an agreement with a depository for dematerialisation of specified
         securities already issued and proposed to be issued;
(c) all its existing partly paid-up equity shares have either been fully paid-up or have been
         forfeited;
(d) it has made firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards seventy five per
         cent. of the stated means of finance for the specific project proposed to be funded from the
         issue proceeds, excluding the amount to be raised through the proposed public issue or
         through existing identifiable internal accruals.
224
      [Explanation. - For the purposes of this regulation “finance for the specific project” shall mean
finance for capital expenditures only.]
(2) The amount for general corporate purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft
offer document and the offer document, shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount being
raised by the issuer.
225
      [(3) The amount for:



         (2)       An issuer not satisfying the condition stipulated in sub-regulation (1) may make a further
         public offer only if the issue is made through the book-building process and the issuer undertakes to
         allot at least seventy five per cent. of the net offer, to qualified institutional buyers and to refund full
         subscription money if it fails to make the said minimum allotment to qualified institutional buyers.”
224
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
225
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                         86
                 (i) general corporate purposes, and
                 (ii)     such objects where the issuer company has not identified acquisition /
                     investment target, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer
                     document and the offer document,

       shall not exceed thirty five per cent. of the amount being raised by the issuer:

       Provided that the amount raised for such objects where the issuer company has not identified
       acquisition or investment target, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer
       document and the offer document, shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount being
       raised by the issuer:

       Provided further that such limits shall not apply if the proposed acquisition or strategic
       investment object has been identified and suitable specific disclosures about such
       acquisitions or investments are made in the draft offer document and the offer document at
       the time of filing of offer documents.]



Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, “project” means the object for which monies are
proposed to be raised to cover the objects of the issue.


Additional conditions for an offer for sale
105. Only such fully paid-up equity shares may be offered for sale to public which have been held
by the selling shareholder(s) for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of the draft offer
document:
226
      [Provided that in case the equity shares received on conversion or exchange of fully paid-up
compulsorily convertible securities including depository receipts are being offered for sale, the
holding period of such convertible securities, including depository receipts, as well as that of
resultant equity shares together shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year
period referred in this sub-regulation.
Provided further that such holding period of one year shall be required to be complied with at the
time of filing of the draft offer document.]
Explanation: If the equity shares arising out of the conversion or exchange of the fully paid-up
compulsorily convertible securities are being offered for sale, the conversion or exchange should



226
   The existing second proviso was placed before the existing first proviso by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                        87
be completed prior to filing of the offer document (i.e. red herring prospectus in the case of a book
built issue and prospectus in the case of a fixed price issue), provided full disclosures of the terms
of conversion or exchange are made in the draft offer document.
Provided further that the requirement of holding the equity shares for a period of one year shall
not apply:
a)    in case of an offer for sale of a government company or statutory authority or corporation or
      any special purpose vehicle set up and controlled by any one or more of them, which is
      engaged in the infrastructure sector;
b)    if the equity shares offered for sale were acquired pursuant to any scheme approved by a
      High Court 227[***] or approved by a tribunal or the Central Government under the sections
      230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, in lieu of business and invested
      capital which had been in existence for a period of more than one year prior to approval of
      such scheme;
c)    if the equity 228[shares] offered for sale were issued under a bonus issue on securities held for
      a period of at least one year prior to the filing of the draft offer document with the Board and
      further subject to the following:
        (i) such specified securities being issued out of free reserves and share premium existing
             in the books of account as at the end of the financial year preceding the financial year
             in which the draft offer document is filed with the Board; and
        (ii) such equity shares not being issued by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealized
             profits of the issuer.


PART II: ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND WARRANTS


106. An issuer shall be eligible to make a further public offer of convertible debt instruments if its
equity shares are already listed;
Provided that it is not in default in payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in
respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months.


Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments



227
    The words, numbers and symbols “under the sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956,” omitted by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
228
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “shared”.

                                                     88
107. (1) In addition to other requirements laid down in these regulations, an issuer making a
public issue of convertible debt instruments shall also comply with the following conditions:
a)   it has obtained credit rating for such convertible debt instrument from one or more credit
     rating agencies;
b)   it has appointed at least one debenture trustee in accordance with the provisions of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees)
     Regulations, 1993;
c)   it shall create a debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder;
d)   if the issuer proposes to create a charge or security on its assets in respect of secured
     convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that:
     i)     such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times;
     ii)    such assets are free from any encumbrance;
     iii)   where security is already created on such assets in favour of public financial
            institutions or scheduled commercial banks or the issue of convertible debt instruments
            is proposed to be secured by creation of security on a leasehold land, the consent of
            such public financial institution, scheduled commercial bank or lessor for a second or
            pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted to the debenture trustee before the
            opening of the issue;
     iv)    the security or asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a
            first or prior charge, in case the convertible debt instruments are secured by a second
            or subsequent charge.
(2) The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments in terms of the offer document.


Roll over of non-convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments
108. The non-convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments issued by a listed issuer,
the value of which exceeds ten crore rupees, may be rolled over, subject to compliance with the
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the following conditions:
(a) seventy five per cent. of the holders (in value) of the convertible debt instruments of the
     issuer have, through a resolution, approved the rollover through postal ballot;
(b) the issuer has, along with the notice for passing the resolution, sent to all holders of the
     convertible debt instruments, an auditors’ certificate on the cash flow of the issuer and with
     comments on the liquidity position of the issuer;




                                                  89
(c) the issuer has undertaken to redeem the non-convertible portion of the partly convertible debt
     instruments of all the holders of the convertible debt instruments who have not agreed to the
     resolution;
(d) credit rating has been obtained from at least one credit rating agency registered with the
     Board within a period of one month prior to the due date of redemption and has been
     communicated to the holders of the convertible debt instruments, before the roll over.
(2) The creation of fresh security and execution of fresh trust deed shall not be mandatory if the
existing trust deed or the security documents provide for continuance of the security till
redemption of secured convertible debt instruments:
Provided that the debenture trustee shall decide if the issuer is required to create fresh security and
to execute fresh trust deed.


Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity share capital
109. (1) The issuer shall not convert its optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares
unless the holders of such convertible debt instruments have sent their positive consent to the
issuer and non-receipt of reply to any notice sent by the issuer for this purpose shall not be
construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.
(2) Where the value of the convertible portion of any listed convertible debt instruments issued by
an issuer exceeds ten crore rupees and the issuer has not determined the conversion price of such
convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible debt
instruments shall be given the option of not converting the convertible portion into equity shares:
Provided that where the upper limit or conversion formula on the price of such convertible debt
instruments and justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of
making the issue, it shall not be necessary to give such option to the holders of the convertible
debt instruments for converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said
upper limit.
(3) Where an option is to be given to the holders of the convertible debt instruments in terms of
sub-regulation (2) and if one or more of such holders do not exercise the option to convert the
instruments into equity share capital at a price determined in the general meeting of the
shareholders, the issuer shall redeem that part of the instruments within one month from the last
date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value.
(4) The provisions of sub-regulation (3) shall not apply if such redemption is in terms of the
disclosures made in the offer document.


Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing

                                                  90
 110. An issuer shall not issue convertible debt instruments for financing or for providing loans to or
 for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the promoter group or group companies:
 Provided that an issuer shall be eligible to issue fully convertible debt instruments for these
 purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments is less than eighteen months from the
 date of issue of such debt instruments.


 Issue of warrants
 111. An issuer shall be eligible to issue warrants in a further public offer subject to the following
 conditions:
 (a)      the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed eighteen months from the date of their allotment
          in the public issue;
 (b)      a specified security may have one or more warrants attached to it;
 (c)       the price or formula for determination of exercise price of the warrants shall be determined
          upfront and at least twenty-five per cent. of the consideration amount based on the exercise
          price shall also be received upfront;
          Provided that in case the exercise price of warrants is based on a formula, twenty-five per
          cent. consideration amount based on the cap price of the price band determined for the
          linked equity shares or convertible securities shall be received upfront.
 (d)      in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of
          the warrants held by the warrant holder, within three months from the date of payment of
          consideration, such consideration made in respect of such warrants shall be forfeited by the
          issuer.


 PART III: PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION


 Requirement of minimum promoters’ contribution not applicable in certain cases
 112. The requirements of minimum promoters’ contribution shall not apply in case of:
  (a) an issuer which does not have any identifiable promoter;
229
      [(b) where the equity shares of the issuer are frequently traded on a stock exchange for a period
 of at least three years immediately preceding the reference date, and:


 229
    Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f
 08.01.2021. Prior to its substitution, the provision read as under:
 “(b) where the equity shares of the issuer are frequently traded on a stock exchange for a period of at least three years
 and the issuer has a track record of dividend payment for at least three immediately preceding years:
 Provided that where the promoters propose to subscribe to the specified securities offered to the extent greater than
 higher of the two options available in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 113, the subscription in excess of

                                                           91
     i) the issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent of the complaints received from the
       investors till the end of the quarter immediately preceding the month of the reference date,
       and;
     ii) the issuer has been in compliance with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
       Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for a minimum period of three years immediately
       preceding the reference date:
       Provided that if the issuer has not complied with the provisions of the Securities and
       Exchange      Board     of    India    (Listing    Obligations      and     Disclosure     Requirements)
       Regulations, 2015, relating to composition of board of directors, for any quarter during the
       last three years immediately preceding the date of filing of draft offer document/offer
       document, but is compliant with such provisions at the time of filing of draft offer
       document/offer document, and adequate disclosures are made in the offer document about
       such non-compliances during the three years immediately preceding the date of filing
       the draft offer document/offer document, it shall be deemed as compliance with the
       condition:
       Provided further that where the promoters propose to subscribe to the specified securities
       offered to the extent greater than higher of the two options available in clause (a) of sub-
       regulation (1) of regulation 113, the subscription in excess of such percentage shall be
       made at a price determined in terms of the provisions of regulation 164 or the issue
       price, whichever is higher.]

Explanation: The reference date for the purpose of computing the annualised trading turnover
referred to in the said Explanation shall be the date of filing the draft offer document with the
Board and in case of a fast track issue, the date of filing the offer document with the Registrar of
Companies, and before opening of the issue.


Minimum promoters’ contribution
113. (1) The promoters shall contribute in the public issue as follows:
a)     either to the extent of twenty per cent. of the proposed issue size or to the extent of twenty
       per cent. of the post-issue capital;
b)     in case of a composite issue (i.e. further public offer cum rights issue), either to the extent of
       twenty per cent. of the proposed issue size or to the extent of twenty per cent. of the post-
       issue capital excluding the rights issue component.


such percentage shall be made at a price determined in terms of the provisions of regulation 164 or the issue price,
whichever is higher.”

                                                         92
(2) In case of a public issue or composite issue of convertible securities, the minimum promoters’
contribution shall be as follows:
a)      the promoters shall contribute twenty per cent. as stipulated in clause (a) or (b) of sub-
        regulation (1), as the case may be, either by way of equity shares or by way of subscription
        to the convertible securities:
        Provided that if the price of the equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion is not pre-
        determined and not disclosed in the offer document, the promoters shall contribute only by
        way of subscription to the convertible securities being issued in the public issue and shall
        undertake in writing to subscribe to the equity shares pursuant to conversion of such
        securities.
b)      in case of any issue of convertible securities which are convertible or exchangeable on
        different dates and if the promoters’ contribution is by way of equity shares (conversion
        price being pre-determined), such contribution shall not be at a price lower than the
        weighted average price of the equity share capital arising out of conversion of such
        securities.
(3) In case of a further public offer or composite issue where the promoters contribute more than
the stipulated minimum promoters’ contribution, the allotment with respect to excess contribution
shall be made at a price determined in terms of the provisions of regulation 164 or the issue price,
whichever is higher.
(4) In case the promoters have to subscribe to equity shares or convertible securities towards
promoters’ contribution, the promoters shall satisfy the requirements of this regulation at least one
day prior to the date of opening of the issue and the amount of promoters’ contribution shall be
kept in an escrow account with a scheduled commercial bank and shall be released to the issuer
along with the release of the issue proceeds:
Provided further that where the minimum promoters’ contribution is more than one hundred crore
rupees and the further public offer is for partly paid shares, the promoters shall bring in at least
one hundred crore rupees before the date of opening of the issue and the remaining amount may
be brought on a pro-rata basis before the calls are made to the public.


230
      [(5) The SR equity shares of promoters, if any, shall be eligible towards computation of
minimum promoters’ contribution.]


Explanation:

230
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.

                                                   93
(I)   For the purpose of this regulation, promoters’ contribution shall be computed on the basis of
      the post-issue expanded capital:
      (a) assuming full proposed conversion of convertible securities into equity shares;
      (b) assuming exercise of all vested options, where any employee stock options 231[or stock
           appreciation rights] are outstanding at the time of further public offer.
(II) For computation of “weighted average price”:
      (a) “weight” means the number of equity shares arising out of conversion of such specified
           securities into equity shares at various stages;
      (b) “price” means the price of equity shares on conversion arrived at after taking into
           account predetermined conversion price at various stages.




Securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution
114. (1) For the computation of minimum promoters’ contribution, the following specified
securities shall not be eligible:
(a) specified securities acquired during the preceding three years, if these are:
      i) acquired for consideration other than cash and revaluation of assets or capitalisation of
          intangible assets is involved in such transaction; or
      ii) resulting from a bonus issue by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealised profits of
          the issuer or from bonus issue against equity shares which are ineligible for minimum
          promoters’ contribution;
(b) specified securities pledged with any creditor other than those for borrowings by the issuer
      or its subsidiaries.
(2) Specified securities referred to in clauses (a) of sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible for the
computation of promoters’ contribution, if such securities are acquired pursuant to a scheme
which has been approved by the High Court 232[***] or approved by a tribunal or the Central
Government under section 230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013.


PART IV: LOCK-IN AND RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERABILITY


Lock-in of specified securities held by the promoters


231
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
232
    The words, numbers and symbols “under section 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956” omitted by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                     94
      115. The specified securities held by the promoters shall not be transferable (hereinafter referred
      to as “locked-in”) for the periods as stipulated hereunder:
      (a) minimum promoters’ contribution including contribution made by alternative investment
              funds, or foreign venture capital investors, as applicable, shall be locked-in for a period of
              233
                    [ eighteen months from the date of allotment of the further public offer:]
              234
                    [Provided that in case the majority of the issue proceeds excluding the portion of offer for
              sale is proposed to be utilized for capital expenditure, then the lock-in period shall be three
              years from the date of allotment in the initial public offer.]
      (b) promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’ contribution shall be locked-in for a
              period of 235[six months:]
              236
                    [ Provided that in case the majority of the issue proceeds excluding the portion of offer for
              sale is proposed to be utilized for capital expenditure, then the lock-in period shall be one
              year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer.]
 237
       [(c) The SR equity shares shall be under lock-in until their conversion to equity shares having
              voting rights same as that of ordinary shares, provided they are in compliance with the other
              provisions of these regulations.]
      238
            [***]
239
      [Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “capital expenditure” shall include civil work,
      miscellaneous fixed assets, purchase of land, building and plant and machinery, etc. 240[and
      repayment of existing loan(s) that may have been taken for the purpose of such capital
      expenditure.]]



      233
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
      Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021, for the words “three years from the date of commencement of
      commercial production or from the date of allotment in the further public offer, whichever is later;”
      234
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
      Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021.
      235
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
      Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021, for the words “one year”.
      236
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
      Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021.
      237
          Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
      w.e.f.29.07.2019.
      238
          Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f
      08.01.2021. Prior to the omission the proviso read as under:
      “Provided that the excess promoters’ contribution as provided in the proviso to clause (b) of regulation 112 shall not
      be subject to lock-in.”
      239
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
      Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021, for the following –
             “Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation, the expression "date of commencement of commercial
             production" means the last date of the month in which commercial production of the project in respect of which
             the funds raised are proposed to be utilised as stated in the offer document, is expected to commence.”
      240
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                               95
Lock-in of specified securities lent to stabilising agent under green shoe option
116. The lock-in provisions of this part shall not apply with respect to the specified securities lent
to stabilising agent for the purpose of green shoe option, during the period starting from the date
of lending of such specified securities and ending on the date on which they are returned to the
lender in terms of sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 153:
Provided that the specified securities shall be locked-in for the remaining period from the date on
which they are returned to the lender.


Lock-in of party-paid securities
117. Where the specified securities which are subject to lock-in are partly paid-up and the amount
called-up on such specified securities is less than the amount called-up on the specified securities
issued to the public, the lock-in shall end only on the expiry of 241[eighteen months] after such
specified securities have become pari passu with the specified securities issued to the public.


Inscription or recording of non-transferability
118. The certificates of specified securities which are subject to lock-in shall contain the
inscription “non- transferable” and specify the lock-in period and in case such specified securities
are dematerialised, the issuer shall ensure that the lock-in is recorded by the depository.


Pledge of locked-in specified securities
119. Specified securities 242[, except SR equity shares,] held by the promoters and locked in may
be pledged as collateral security for a loan granted by a scheduled commercial bank or a public
financial institution or a systemically important non-banking finance company or a housing
finance company, subject to the following:
a) if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (a) of regulation 115, the loan has
      been granted to the issuer company or its subsidiary/subsidiaries for the purpose of financing
      one or more of the objects of the issue and pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of
      sanction of the loan
b) if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (b) of regulation 115 and the pledge
      of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan.



241
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021, for the words “three years”.
242
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.

                                                        96
Transferability of locked-in specified securities
120.    Subject to the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial
Acquisition of shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, the specified securities243[, except SR
equity shares,] held by the promoters and locked-in as per regulation 115 may be transferred to
another promoter or any person of the promoter group or a new promoter or a person in control of
the issuer:
Provided that lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with the
transferee and such transferee shall not be eligible to transfer them till the lock-in period
stipulated in these regulations has expired.


PART V: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER INTERMEDIARIES AND
COMPLIANCE OFFICER


121. (1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with the
Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2) Where the issue is managed by more than one lead manager, the rights, obligations and
responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations,
if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft offer document
and the offer document as specified in Schedule I:
(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate [as defined under the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992] of the issuer and if any of
the lead managers is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer
and its role shall be limited to the marketing of the issue.
(4) The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other intermediaries which
are registered with the Board after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed the capability
of other intermediaries to carry out their obligations.
(5)    The issuer shall enter into an agreement with the lead manager(s) in the format specified in
Schedule II and enter into agreements with other intermediaries as required under the respective
regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned:

243
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.

                                                   97
Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the
intermediaries may deem fit without diminishing or limiting in any way the liabilities and
obligations of the lead manager(s), other intermediaries and the issuer under the Act, the
Companies Act, 2013 or the Companies Act, 1956 (to the extent applicable), the Securities
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules and regulations made
thereunder or any statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof:
Provided further that in case of ASBA process, the issuer shall take cognisance of the deemed
agreement of the issuer with the self-certified syndicate banks.
(6) The issuer shall, in the case of an issue made through the book building process, appoint
syndicate member(s) and in the case of any other issue, appoint bankers to an issue, at centres as
specified in Schedule XII.
(7) The issuer shall appoint a registrar to the issue, registered with the Board, which has
connectivity with all the depositories:
Provided that if issuer itself is a registrar, it shall not appoint itself as a registrar to the issue:
Provided further that the lead manager shall not act as a registrar to the issue in which it is also
handling the post-issue responsibilities.
(8) The issuer shall appoint a 244[person qualified to be a company secretary as the] compliance
officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the securities laws and for
redressal of investors’ grievances.


PART VI: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS


Disclosures in the draft offer document and the offer document
122. (1) The draft offer document and the offer document shall contain all material disclosures
which are true and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the red-herring prospectus, shelf
prospectus and prospectus shall contain:
          (i)   disclosures specified in the Companies Act, 2013; and
          (ii) disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule VI, subject to the provisions of Parts
                C and D thereof.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves about all aspects of
the issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosures made in the draft offer document and
the offer document.

244
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                     98
(4) The lead manager(s) shall call upon the issuer, its promoters and its directors or in case of an
offer for sale, the selling shareholders, to fulfil their obligations as disclosed by them in the draft
offer document and the offer document and as required in terms of these Regulations.
(5) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the information contained in the offer document and the
particulars as per audited financial statements in the offer document are not more than six months old
from the issue opening date.


Filing of the draft offer document and offer documents
123. (1) Prior to making a further public offer, the issuer shall file three copies of the draft offer
document 245[with the Board], in accordance with Schedule IV, along with fees as specified in
Schedule III, through the lead manager(s).
(2) The lead manager(s) shall submit the following to the Board along with the draft offer
document:
      a) a certificate, confirming that an agreement has been entered into between the issuer and
           the lead manager(s)
      b) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V;
      c) in case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate from the
           debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V;
      d) a certificate confirming compliance of the conditions specified in Part C of Schedule VI.
(3) The issuer shall also file the draft offer document with the stock exchange(s) where the
specified securities are proposed to be listed, and shall submit to the stock exchange(s), the
Permanent Account Number, bank account number and passport number of its promoters where
they are individuals, and Permanent Account Number, bank account number, company
registration number or equivalent and the address of the Registrar of Companies with which the
promoter is registered, where the promoter is a body corporate.


(4) The Board may specify changes or issue observations on the draft offer document within a
period of thirty days from the later of the following dates:
      a)    the date of receipt of the draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or
      b)    the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead manager(s), where the Board has
            sought any clarification or additional information from them; or




245
  Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022 for the words “with the concerned regional office of the Board
under the jurisdiction of which the registered office of the issuer company is located”.

                                                       99
      c)    the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the
            Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or
      d)    the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock
            exchange(s).
(5) If the Board specifies changes or issues observations on the draft offer document, the issuer
and the lead manager(s) shall carry out such changes in the draft offer document and shall submit
to the Board an updated draft offer document complying with the observations issued by the
Board and highlighting all changes made in the draft offer document before 246[***] filing the
offer documents with the Registrar of Companies or the appropriate authority, as applicable.
(6) If there are any changes in the draft offer document in relation to the matters specified in
Schedule XVI, the updated offer document or a fresh draft offer document, as the case may be,
shall be filed with the Board along with fees specified in Schedule III.
(7) Copy of the offer documents shall also be filed with the Board and the stock exchanges
through the lead manager(s) simultaneously while 247[filing] the offer documents with Registrar of
Companies.
(8) The draft offer document and the offer document shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft
copy in the manner as may be specified.
(9) The lead manager(s) shall submit the following documents to the Board after issuance of
observations by the Board or after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (4) of
regulation 123 if the Board has not issued observations:
      a) a statement certifying that all changes, suggestions and observations made by the Board
           have been incorporated in the offer document;
      b) a due diligence certificate as per Form C of Schedule V, at the time of 248[filing] of the
           offer document;
      c) a copy of the resolution passed by the board of directors of the issuer for allotting specified
           securities to promoters towards amount received against promoters’ contribution, before
           opening of the issue;
      d) a certificate from a Chartered Accountant, before opening of the issue, certifying that
           promoters’ contribution has been received in accordance with these regulations,
           accompanying therewith the names and addresses of the promoters who have contributed


246
    Word “registering or” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020.
247
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
248
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.

                                                     100
         to the promoters’ contribution and the amount paid and credited to the bank account of the
         issuer by each of them towards such contribution;
      e) a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule V, in the event the issuer has made
         a disclosure of any material development by issuing a public notice.


Draft offer document and offer document to be available to the public
124. (1) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public for comments, if any,
for a period of at least twenty one days from the date of 249[publication of the public
announcement under sub-regulation (2)], by hosting it on the websites of 250[the issuer,] the
Board, stock exchanges where specified securities are proposed to be listed and lead manager(s)
associated with the issue.
(2) The issuer shall, within two 251[working] days of filing the draft offer document with the
Board, make a public announcement in one English national daily newspaper with wide
circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language
newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated,
disclosing to the public the fact of filing of the draft offer document with the Board and inviting
the public to provide their comments to the Board, the issuer or the lead manager(s) in respect of
the disclosures made in the draft offer document.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with
the Board, details of the comments received by them or the issuer from the public, on the draft
offer document, during that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to be
made in the draft offer document.
(4) The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the offer documents are hosted on the
websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed
with the Registrar of Companies, the Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable.
(5) The lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges shall provide copies of the offer documents, to
the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of the
same.




249
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word “filing”.
250
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.
251
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.



                                                      101
      PART VII - PRICING


      Face value of equity shares
      125. The disclosure about the face value of equity shares shall be made in the draft offer
      document, offer document, advertisements and application forms, along with the price band or the
      issue price in identical font size.


      Pricing
      126. (1) The issuer may determine the price of equity shares, and in case of convertible securities, the
      coupon rate and the conversion price, in consultation with the lead manager(s) or through the book
      building process, as the case may be.
      (2) The issuer shall undertake the book building process in the manner specified in Schedule
      XIII.


      Price and price band
      127. (1) The issuer may mention a price or a price band in the offer document (in case of a fixed
      price issue) and a floor price or a price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built
      issue) and determine the price at a later date before 252[filing] the prospectus with the Registrar of
      Companies:
      Provided that the prospectus 253[filed] with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price
      or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be.
      (2) The cap on the price band, and the coupon rate in case of convertible debt instruments, shall be
      less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent. of the floor price.
      254
            [Provided that the cap of the price band shall be at least one hundred and five percent of the floor
      price.]
      (3) The floor price or the final price shall not be less than the face value of the specified
      securities.
255
      [(4) The issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least two working days before the
      opening of the bid in the pre-issue and price band advertisement in the format specified under Part A


      252
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
      253
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registered”.
      254
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
      255
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (4) read as under,-

                                                          102
of Schedule X in the same newspapers in which the public announcement under sub-regulation (2)
of Regulation 124 was published.]
(5) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall contain relevant financial ratios
computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention
of the investors to the section title “basis of issue price” of the offer document.
(6) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) and the relevant financial ratios referred to
in sub-regulation (5) shall be disclosed on the websites of the stock exchange(s) and shall also be
pre-filled in the application forms to be made available on the websites of the stock exchange(s).


Differential pricing
128. (1) The issuer may offer its specified securities at different prices, subject to the following:
a)    retail individual investors or retail individual shareholders or employees entitled for
      reservation made under regulation 130 may be offered specified securities at a price not lower
      than by more than ten per cent. of the price at which net offer is made to other categories of
      applicants, excluding anchor investors;
b)    in case of a book built issue, the price of the specified securities offered to the anchor investors
      shall not be lower than the price offered to other applicants;
c)    in case of a composite issue, the price of the specified securities offered in the public issue may
      be different from the price offered in rights issue and justification for such price difference shall
      be given in the offer document.
d)    in case the issuer opts for the alternate method of book building in terms of Part D of
      Schedule XIII, the issuer may offer the specified securities to its employees at a price not
      lower by more than ten per cent. of the floor price.
(2) Discount, if any, shall be expressed in rupee terms in the offer document.


PART VIII: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE
Allocation in the net offer
129. (1) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (1) of regulation
103, the allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows:
a) not less than thirty five per cent. to retail individual investors;
b) not less than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors;



        “(4) Where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the floor price or price band in the red herring
        prospectus, the issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least one working day before the
        opening of the bid in the same newspapers in which the pre-issue advertisement was released or together
        with the pre-issue advertisement in the format prescribed under Part A of Schedule X.”

                                                      103
c) not more than fifty per cent. to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be
       allocated to mutual funds:
         Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b)
         may be allocated to applicants in any other category:
         Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c),
         mutual funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified
         institutional buyers.
(2) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 103,
the allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows:
        (a) not more than ten per cent. to retail individual investors;
        (b) not more than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors;
        (c) not less than seventy five per cent. to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which
           shall be allocated to mutual funds:
Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may
be allocated to applicants in the other category:
Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual
funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.
(3) In an issue made through the book building process, the issuer may allocate up to sixty per cent.
of the portion available for allocation to qualified institutional buyers to anchor investors in
accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in Schedule XIII.
256
      [(3A) In an issue made through book building process, the allocation in the non-institutional
investors’ category shall be as follows:
            (a)   one third of the portion available to non-institutional investors shall be reserved
                  for applicants with application size of more than two lakh rupees and up to ten lakh
                  rupees;
            (b)   two third of the portion available to non-institutional investors shall be reserved
                  for applicants with application size of more than ten lakh rupees:
  Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the sub-categories specified in clauses (a) or
  (b) may be allocated to applicants in the other sub-category of non-institutional investors.]
(4) In an issue made other than through the book building process, allocation in the net offer
category shall be made as follows:



256
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or
after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective from 1.7.2022.

                                                      104
   (a)      minimum fifty per cent. to retail individual investors; and
   (b) remaining to:
            (i)    individual applicants other than retail individual investors; and
            (ii) other investors including corporate bodies or institutions, irrespective of the number of
                   specified securities applied for;
            Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or
            (b) may be allocated to applicants in the other category.
Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (4), if the retail individual investor category is
entitled to more than fifty per cent. of the issue size on a proportionate basis, the retail individual
investors shall be allocated that higher percentage.


Reservation on a competitive basis
130. (1) The issuer may make reservations on a competitive basis out of the issue size excluding
promoters’ contribution in favour of the following categories of persons:
           (a)    employees;
           (b) shareholders (other than promoters and promoter group) of listed subsidiaries or listed
                  promoter companies:
           Provided that the issuer shall not make any reservation for the lead manager(s), registrar,
           syndicate member(s), their promoters, directors and employees and for the group or associate
           companies (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013) of the lead manager(s), registrar and
           syndicate member(s) and their promoters, directors and employees.
(2) In a further public offer, other than in a composite issue, the issuer may make a reservation on a
competitive basis out of the issue size excluding promoters’ contribution r for the existing retail
individual shareholders of the issuer.
(3) The reservations on competitive basis shall be subject to following conditions:
     (a) the aggregate of reservation for employees shall not exceed five per cent. of the post-issue
             capital of the issuer and the value of allotment to any employee shall not exceed two
             lakhs rupees:
             Provided that in the event of under-subscription in the employee reservation portion, the
             unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of
             two lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs
             rupees.
     (b) reservation for shareholders shall not exceed ten per cent. of the issue size;
     (c)     no further application for subscription in the net offer can be made by persons (except an
             employee and retail individual shareholder of the listed issuer and retail individual

                                                       105
          shareholders of listed subsidiaries of listed promoter companies) in favour of whom
          reservation on a competitive basis is made;
     (d) any unsubscribed portion in any reserved category may be added to any other reserved
          category/categories and the unsubscribed portion, if any, after such inter-se adjustments
          amongst the reserved categories shall be added to the net offer category;
     (e) in case of under-subscription in the net offer category, spill-over to the extent of under-
          subscription shall be permitted from the reserved category to the net public offer.
(4) An applicant in any reserved category may make an application for any number of specified
securities, but not exceeding the reserved portion for that category.


Abridged prospectus
131. (1) The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified in Part E of Schedule
VI and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(2) Every application form distributed by the issuer or any other person in relation to an issue
shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus.


ASBA
132. The issuer shall accept bids using only the ASBA facility in the manner specified by the
Board.


Availability of issue material
133. The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the offer document and other issue material
including application forms to stock exchanges, syndicate members, registrar to issue, registrar
and share transfer agents, depository participants, stock brokers, underwriters, bankers to the
issue, investors’ associations and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue.


Prohibition on payment of incentives
134. Any person connected with the issue, shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect,
in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any person for making an
application in the initial public offer, except for fees or commission for services rendered in
relation to the issue.




                                                  106
 257[***]




258
      [ Underwriting
 136. (1) If the issuer making a further public offer, other than through the book building process,
 desires to have the issue underwritten to cover under-subscription in the issue, it shall, prior to the
 filing of the prospectus, enter into an underwriting agreement with the merchant bankers or stock
 brokers registered with the Board to act as underwriters, indicating therein the maximum number
 of specified securities they shall subscribe to, either by themselves or by procuring subscription, at
 a predetermined price which shall not be less than the issue price, and shall disclose the fact of
 such underwriting agreement in the prospectus.


  (2) The issuer making a further public offer, other than through the book building process, shall,
 prior to the filing of the prospectus, enter into an underwriting agreement with the merchant
 bankers or stock brokers registered with the Board to act as underwriters, indicating therein the


 257
     Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. Prior to its omission, Regulation 135 read as follows-
          “Security deposit
          135. (1) The issuer shall, before the opening of the subscription list, deposit with the designated stock
          exchange, an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the issue size available for subscription to the
          public in the manner specified by the Board and/or the stock exchange(s).
          (2)        The amount specified in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified
          by the Board.”
 258
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023. Prior to its substitution, regulation 136 read as follows,-
      “Underwriting
      136. (1) If the issuer making a further public offer, other than through the book building process, desires to have
      the issue underwritten, it shall appoint merchant bankers or stock brokers, registered with the Board, to act as
      underwriters.
      (2) If the issuer makes a public issue through the book building process,
         (a) the issue shall be underwritten by lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s):
              Provided that at least seventy five per cent. of the net offer proposed to be compulsorily allotted to
              qualified institutional buyers for the purpose of compliance of the eligibility conditions specified in sub-
              regulation (2) of regulation 103, shall not be underwritten.
         (b) the issuer shall, prior to filing the prospectus, enter into underwriting agreement with the lead
              manager(s), and syndicate member(s), indicating therein the number of specified securities which they
              shall subscribe to at the predetermined price in the event of under-subscription in the issue.
         (c) if the syndicate member(s) fail to fulfil their underwriting obligations, the lead manager(s) shall fulfil the
              underwriting obligations.
         (d) the lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s) shall not subscribe to the issue in any manner except for
              fulfilling their underwriting obligations.
         (e) in case of every underwritten issue, the lead manager(s) shall undertake minimum underwriting
              obligations as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations,
              1992.
         (f) where the issue is required to be underwritten, the underwriting obligations should at least be to the
              extent of minimum subscription.”



                                                           107
number of specified securities they shall subscribe to on account of rejection of applications,
either by themselves or by procuring subscription, at a predetermined price which shall not be less
than the issue price, and shall disclose the fact of such underwriting agreement in the prospectus.


(3) If the issuer makes a public issue through the book building process:
   (a) the issue shall be underwritten by lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s):
   Provided that at least seventy five per cent. of the net offer proposed to be compulsorily
   allotted to qualified institutional buyers for the purpose of compliance of the eligibility
   conditions specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 103 shall not be underwritten.
   (b) the issuer shall, prior to the filing of the prospectus, enter into an underwriting agreement
   with the lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s), indicating therein the number of specified
   securities they shall subscribe to on account of rejection of bids, either by themselves or by
   procuring subscription, at a price which shall not be less than the issue price, and shall disclose
   the fact of such underwriting agreement in the prospectus.
   (c) if the issuer desires to have the issue underwritten to cover under-subscription in the issue,
   it shall, prior to the filing of the red herring prospectus, enter into an underwriting agreement
   with the lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s) to act as underwriters, indicating therein the
   maximum number of specified securities they shall subscribe to, either by themselves or by
   procuring subscription, at a price which shall not be less than the issue price, and shall disclose
   the fact of such underwriting agreement in the red herring prospectus.
   (d)if the syndicate member(s) fail to fulfil their underwriting obligations, the lead
   manager(s) shall fulfil the underwriting obligations.
   (e) the lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s) shall not subscribe to the issue in any manner
   except for fulfilling their underwriting obligations.
   (f) in   case   of   every   underwritten    issue,     the   lead   manager(s)   shall   undertake
   minimum underwriting obligations as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of
   India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.
   (g) where the issue is required to be underwritten, the underwriting obligations should be at
   least to the extent of minimum subscription.]


Monitoring agency




                                                 108
137. (1) If the issue size, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders, exceeds one
hundred crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be
monitored by a 259[credit rating agency registered with the Board:]
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made by a
bank or public financial institution or an insurance company.
(2) The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule
XI on a quarterly basis, till 260[hundred per cent] of the proceeds of the issue 261[***] have been
utilised.
(3) The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the
findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.


(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publicly disseminate the
report of the monitoring agency by uploading the same on its website as well as submitting the
same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed.


Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports
138. All public communication, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports shall
comply with provisions of Schedule IX.


Issue-related advertisements
139. 262[(1)Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the issuer shall, after filing the red
herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of fixed price issue) with the
Registrar of Companies, make a pre-issue and price band advertisement in the same newspapers in
which the public announcement under sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 124 was published.]



259
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbol “public financial institution or by a
scheduled commercial bank named in the offer document as the bankers of the issuer:”
260
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “at least ninety five per cent.”
261
    The words and symbols “, excluding the proceeds raised for general corporate purposes,” omitted by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
262
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under,-

        “(1) Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the issuer shall, after filing the red herring
        prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of fixed price issue) with the Registrar of
        Companies, make a pre-issue advertisement in one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation,
        Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language newspaper with wide
        circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated.”

                                                       109
      (2) The pre-issue 263[and price band] advertisement shall be in the format and shall contain the
      disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule X.
264
      [***]
      (3) The issuer may release advertisements for issue opening and issue closing, which shall be in
      the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule X.
      (4) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving
      an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed or indicating investors’
      response to the issue.


      Opening of the issue
      140. (1) Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a public issue
      may be opened within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board
      under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 123; or
              Provided that in case of a fast track issue, the issue shall open within the period specifically
              stipulated under the Companies Act, 2013.
      (2) In case of shelf prospectus, the first issue may be opened within three months of issuance of
      observations by the Board.
      (3) The issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of 265[filing] the red
      herring prospectus with the Registrar of Companies in case of book built issues and prospectus
      with the Registrar of Companies in case of fixed price issues.


      Minimum subscription
      141. (1) The minimum subscription to be received in the issue shall be at least ninety per cent. of
      the offer through the offer document, except in case of an offer for sale of specified securities.
      (2) In the event of non-receipt of minimum subscription referred to in sub-regulation (1), all
      application monies received shall be refunded to the applicants forthwith, but not later than
      266
            [four days] from the closure of the issue.


      263
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
      264
          Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its omission, the proviso read as under,-

               “Provided that the disclosures in relation to price band or floor price and financial ratios contained
               therein shall be applicable only where the issuer opts to announce the price band or floor price along with the
               pre-issue advertisement pursuant to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 127.”
      265
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
      266
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “fifteen days”.

                                                               110
Period of subscription
142. (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, a further public issue shall be kept open
for at least three working days and not more than ten working days.
(2) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed
in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions
of sub-regulation (1).
(3) In case of force majeure, banking strike or similar 267[unforeseen] circumstances, the issuer may,
for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring
prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or the issue period disclosed in the prospectus (in case of a
fixed price issue), for a minimum period of 268[one working day], subject to the provisions of sub-
regulation (1).


Application and minimum application value
143. (1) A person shall not make an application in the net offer category for a number of specified
securities that exceeds the total number of specified securities offered to public.
Provided that the maximum application by non-institutional investors shall not exceed total number
of specified securities offered in the issue less total number of specified securities offered in the issue
to qualified institutional buyers.
(2) The issuer shall stipulate in the offer document the minimum application size in terms of
number of specified securities which shall fall within the range of minimum application value of
ten thousand rupees to fifteen thousand rupees.
(3) The issuer shall invite applications in multiples of the minimum application value, an illustration
whereof is given in Part B of Schedule XIV.
(4) The minimum sum payable on application per specified security shall be at least twenty five per
cent. of the issue price:
Provided that in case of an offer for sale, the full issue price for each specified security shall be
payable at the time of application.
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “minimum application value” shall be with
reference to the issue price of the specified securities and not with reference to the amount payable on
application.



267
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
268
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024 for the words “three working days”

                                                   111
Manner of calls
144. If the issuer proposes to receive subscription monies in calls, it shall ensure that the outstanding
subscription money is called within twelve months from the date of allotment in the issue and if any
applicant fails to pay the call money within the said twelve months, the equity shares on which there
are calls in arrear along with the subscription money already paid on such shares shall be forfeited:
Provided that it shall not be necessary to call the outstanding subscription money within twelve
months, if the issuer has appointed a monitoring agency in terms of regulation 137.


Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
145. (1) The issuer shall not make an allotment pursuant to a public issue if the number of
prospective allottees is less than one thousand.
(2) The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered through the
offer document except in case of oversubscription for the purpose of rounding off to make
allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange.
Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than one per cent. of the net
offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots.
(3) The allotment of specified securities to applicants other than retail individual investors 269[,
non-institutional investors] and anchor investors shall be on proportionate basis within the
specified investor categories and the number of securities allotted shall be rounded off to the
nearest integer, subject to minimum allotment being equal to the minimum application size as
determined and disclosed by the issuer:
Provided that value of specified securities allotted to any person, except in case of employees, in
pursuance of reservation made under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) or clause (a) of sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 130, shall not exceed two lakhs rupees.
(4) The allotment of specified securities to each retail individual investor shall not be less than the
minimum bid lot, subject to availability of shares in retail individual investor category, and the
remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis.
270
      [(4A) The allotment of specified securities to each non-institutional investor shall not be less
than the minimum application size, subject to the availability of shares in non-institutional


269
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or
after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective from 1.7.2022.
270
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second

                                                      112
investors’ category, and the remaining shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis in
accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in Schedule XIII of these regulations.]
(5) The authorised employees of the designated stock exchange along with the lead manager(s)
and registrars to the issue shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper
manner in accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in Part A of Schedule XIV.


Allotment, refund and payment of interest
146. (1) The issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that specified securities are allotted and/or
application monies are refunded or unblocked within such period as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities,
refunding or unblocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(3) Where specified securities are not allotted and/or application monies are not refunded or
unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay
interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum to the investors and within such time as disclosed
in the offer document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same.


Post-issue Advertisements
147. (1) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that advertisement giving details relating to
subscription, basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of all applications including
ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA,
date of completion of despatch of refund orders, as applicable, or instructions to self-certified
syndicate banks by the registrar, date of credit of specified securities and date of filing of listing
application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in
at least one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily
newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation
at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2) Details specified in sub regulation (1) shall also be placed on the websites of the stock
exchanges.


Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s)
148. (1) The responsibility of the lead manager(s) shall continue until completion of issue process
and for any issue related matter thereafter.



Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or
after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective from 1.7.2022.

                                                     113
(2) The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any
issue related activities.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall continue to be responsible for post-issue activities till the applicants
have received the securities certificates, credit to their demat account or refund of application
monies and the listing agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange and listing
or trading permission is obtained.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall be responsible for and co-ordinate with the registrars to the issue
and with various intermediaries at regular intervals after the closure of the issue to monitor the
flow of applications from syndicate member(s) or collecting bank branches and or self-certified
syndicate banks, processing of the applications including application form for ASBA and other
matters till the basis of allotment is finalised, credit of the specified securities to the demat
accounts of the allottees and unblocking of ASBA accounts/ despatch of refund orders are
completed and securities are listed, as applicable.
(5) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead
manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board.
(6) In case there is a devolvement on underwriters, the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the notice
for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within a period of ten days
from the date of closure of the issue.
(7) In case of undersubscribed issues that are underwritten, the lead manager(s) shall furnish
information to the Board in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting
devolvement in the format specified in Schedule XVIII.


Release of subscription money
149. (1) The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing
and trading approvals that all formalities in connection with the issue have been completed and
that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of
failure of the issue.
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where
the specified securities were listed, it shall refund, through verifiable means, the entire monies
received within 271[four days] of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the
application for listing of specified securities and if monies are not repaid within the specified
period, the issuer and every director of the company who is an officer in default shall, on and from



271
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “seven days”.

                                                   114
   the expiry of the 272[fourth day], be jointly and severally liable to repay that money with interest at
   the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
   (3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the issue are released
   to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of the Section 40 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013,
   as applicable.


273[Reporting   of transactions by the promoters and promoter group and other pre-offer
   transactions
   150. (1) The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter
   group between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may
   be, and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty-
   four hours of such transactions.
   (2) The issuer shall also ensure that any proposed pre-offer placement disclosed in the draft offer
   document shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty-four hours of such pre-offer
   transactions (in part or in entirety).]


   Post- issue reports
   151. The lead manager(s) shall submit a final post-issue report as specified in Part A of Schedule
   XVII, along with a due diligence certificate as per the format specified in Form F of Schedule V,
   within seven days of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or within seven days of refund
   of money in case of failure of issue.


   PART IX: MISCELLANEOUS


   Restriction on further capital issues
   152. An issuer shall not make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether by way
   of public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of bonus shares




   272
       Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
   (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eighth day”.
   273
       Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
   (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 150 read as under:

           “Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group
           150. The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter group between
           the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the date of closure
           of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchanges, within twenty four hours of such transactions.”



                                                          115
or otherwise, except pursuant to an employee stock option scheme 274[or a stock appreciation right
scheme]:
a)    in case of a fast track issue, during the period between the date of 275[filing] the offer
      document (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) with the
      Registrar of Companies and the listing of the specified securities offered through the offer
      document or refund of application monies; or
b)    in case of other issues, during the period between the date of filing the draft offer document
      and the listing of the specified securities offered through the offer document or refund of
      application monies;
      unless full disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities or amount proposed
      to be raised from such further issue are made in such draft offer document or offer document,
      as the case may be.


Price stabilisation through green shoe option
153. (1) An issuer may provide green shoe option for stabilising the post listing price of its specified
securities, subject to the following:
a)    the issuer has been authorized, by a resolution passed in the general meeting of shareholders
      approving the public issue, to allot specified securities to the stabilising agent, if required, on
      the expiry of the stabilisation period;
b)    the issuer has appointed a lead manager as a stabilising agent, who shall be responsible for the
      price stabilisation process;
c)    prior to filing the draft offer document, the issuer and the stabilising agent have entered into an
      agreement, stating all the terms and conditions relating to the green shoe option including fees
      charged and expenses to be incurred by the stabilising agent for discharging its responsibilities;
d)    prior to filing the offer document, the stabilising agent has entered into an agreement with the
      promoters or pre-issue shareholders or both for borrowing specified securities from them in
      accordance with clause (g) of this sub-regulation, specifying therein the maximum number of
      specified securities that may be borrowed for the purpose of allotment or allocation of specified
      securities in excess of the issue size (hereinafter referred to as the “over- allotment”), which
      shall not be in excess of fifteen per cent. of the issue size;




274
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
275
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.

                                                    116
e)    subject to clause (d), the lead manager, in consultation with the stabilising agent, shall
      determine the amount of specified securities to be over-allotted in the public issue;
f)    the draft offer document and offer document shall contain all material disclosures about the
      green shoe option specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VI;
g)    in case of an initial public offer pre-issue shareholders and promoters and in case of a further
      public offer pre-issue shareholders holding more than five per cent. specified securities and
      promoters, may lend specified securities to the extent of the proposed over-allotment;
h)    the specified securities borrowed shall be in dematerialised form and allocation of these
      securities shall be made pro-rata to all successful applicants.
(2) For the purpose of stabilisation of post-listing price of the specified securities, the stabilising
agent shall determine the relevant aspects including the timing of buying such securities, quantity to
be bought and the price at which such securities are to be bought from the market.
(3) The stabilisation process shall be available for a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on
which trading permission is given by the stock exchanges in respect of the specified securities
allotted in the public issue.
(4) The stabilising agent shall open a special account, distinct from the issue account, with a bank for
crediting the monies received from the applicants against the over-allotment and a special account
with a depository participant for crediting specified securities to be bought from the market during
the stabilisation period out of the monies credited in the special bank account.
(5) The specified securities bought from the market and credited in the special account with the
depository participant shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders immediately, in
any case not later than two working days after the end of the stabilization period.
(6) On expiry of the stabilisation period, if the stabilising agent has not been able to buy specified
securities from the market to the extent of such securities over-allotted, the issuer shall allot specified
securities at issue price in dematerialised form to the extent of the shortfall to the special account
with the depository participant, within five days of the closure of the stabilisation period and such
specified securities shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders by the stabilising
agent in lieu of the specified securities borrowed from them and the account with the depository
participant shall be closed thereafter.
(7) The issuer shall make a listing application in respect of the further specified securities allotted
under sub-regulation (6), to all the stock exchanges where the specified securities allotted in the
public issue are listed and the provisions of Chapter VII shall not be applicable to such allotment.
(8) The stabilising agent shall remit the monies with respect to the specified securities allotted under
sub-regulation (6) to the issuer from the special bank account.



                                                   117
(9) Any monies left in the special bank account after remittance of monies to the issuer under sub-
regulation (8) and deduction of expenses incurred by the stabilising agent for the stabilisation process
shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the Board and the
special bank account shall be closed soon thereafter.
(10)     The stabilising agent shall submit a report to the stock exchange on a daily basis during the
stabilisation period and a final report to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XV.


(11)     The stabilising agent shall maintain a register for a period of at least three years from the date
of the end of the stabilisation period and such register shall contain the following particulars:
a)     The names of the promoters or pre-issue shareholders from whom the specified securities were
       borrowed and the number of specified securities borrowed from each of them;
b)     The price, date and time in respect of each transaction effected in the course of the stabilisation
       process; and
c)     The details of allotment made by the issuer on expiry of the stabilisation process.


Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities
154. An issuer shall not alter the terms, including the terms of issue, of specified securities which
may adversely affect the interests of the holders of that specified securities, except with the
consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths of the specified securities of that
class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified
securities of that class.


PART X: FAST TRACK FURTHER PUBLIC OFFER


Eligibility conditions
155. Sub-regulations (1), (2), (3), ( 4) and ( 5) and (9) of regulation 123 shall not apply if the
issuer satisfies the following conditions for making a further public offer through the fast track
route:
a)     equity shares of the issuer have been listed on any stock exchange for a period of at least
       three years immediately preceding the reference date;
b)     entire shareholding of the promoter group of the issuer is held in dematerialised form on the
       reference date
c)     average market capitalisation of public shareholding of the issuer is at least one thousand
       crore rupees in case of public issue;



                                                   118
      “average market capitalisation of public shareholding” means the sum of daily market
      capitalisation of public shareholding for a period of one year up to the end of the quarter
      preceding the month in which the proposed issue was approved by the shareholders or the
      board of the issuer, as the case may be, divided by the number of trading days.
      “public shareholding” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities
      Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
d)    annualised trading turnover of the equity shares of the issuer during six calendar months
      immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least two per cent. of the
      weighted average number of equity shares listed during such six months‘ period:
      Provided that for issuers, whose public shareholding is less than fifteen per cent. of its issued
      equity capital, the annualised trading turnover of its equity shares has been at least two per
      cent. of the weighted average number of equity shares available as free float during such six
      months‘ period;
e)    annualized delivery-based trading turnover of the equity shares during six calendar months
      immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least ten per cent. of the
      annualised trading turnover of the equity shares during such six months‘ period;
f)    issuer has been in compliance with the equity listing agreement or the Securities and
      Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
      2015, as applicable, for a period of at least three years immediately preceding the reference
      date:
      Provided that if the issuer has not complied with the provisions of the listing agreement or
      the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
      Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as applicable, relating to composition of board of
      directors, for any quarter during the last three years immediately preceding the reference
      date, but is compliant with such provisions at the time of filing of 276[the red herring
      prospectus with the Registrar of Companies], and adequate disclosures are made in the
      277
            [the red herring prospectus] about such non-compliances during the three years
      immediately preceding the reference date, it shall be deemed as compliance with the
      condition;
      Provided further that imposition of only monetary fines by stock exchanges on the issuer
      shall not be a ground for ineligibility for undertaking issuances under this regulation;



276
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “letter of offer”.
277
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “letter of offer”.

                                                   119
g)       issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the
         investors till the end of the quarter immediately preceding the month of the reference date;
      h) 278[that no show-cause notices, excluding proceedings for imposition of penalty, have been
         issued by the Board and pending against the issuer or its promoters or whole time directors
         as on the reference date:
         In cases where against the issuer or its promoters or whole time directors,
                        (i) show-cause notice(s) has been issued by the Board or the Adjudicating
                        Officer, in a proceeding for imposition of penalty; or
                        (ii) prosecution proceedings have been initiated by the Board;
         necessary disclosures in respect of such action(s) along with its potential adverse impact on
         the issuer shall be made in the offer document;]
         279
i)             [if the issuer or the promoter or the promoter group or the director of the issuer has settled
         any alleged violations of securities laws through the settlement mechanism of the Board in
         the past three years immediately preceding the reference date, then the disclosure of such
         compliance of the settlement order, shall be made in the offer document;]
j)       equity shares of the issuer have not been suspended from trading as a disciplinary measure
         during last three years immediately preceding the reference date;
k)       there shall be no conflict of interest between the lead manager(s) and the issuer or its group
         companies in accordance with the applicable regulations.
         280
l)             [for audit qualifications, if any, in respect of any of the financial years for which accounts
         are disclosed in the offer document, the issuer shall provide the restated financial statements
         adjusting for the impact of the audit qualifications.
         Further, for the qualifications wherein impact on the financials cannot be ascertained, the
         same shall be disclosed appropriately in the offer document.]



278
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the substitution, clause (h) read as follows:
        “(h) no show-cause notices have been issued or prosecution proceedings have been initiated by the
        Board and pending against the issuer or its promoters or whole-time directors as on the reference
        date;”
279
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the substitution, clause (i) read as follows:
         “(i) issuer or promoter or promoter group or director of the issuer has not settled any alleged violation of
         securities laws through the consent or settlement mechanism with the Board during three years
         immediately preceding the reference date;”
280
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the substitution, clause (l) read as follows:
           “(l) impact of audit qualifications, if any and where quantifiable, on the audited accounts of the issuer
           in respect of those financial years for which such accounts are disclosed in the letter of offer does not
           exceed five per cent. of the net profit or loss after tax of the issuer for the respective years.”

                                                        120
Submission of offer document and due diligence certificate
156. (1) The issuer shall file the offer document with the Board and the stock exchanges in
accordance with sub-regulations (7) and (8) of regulation 123 and shall pay fees to the Board as
specified in Schedule III.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall submit to the Board, the following documents along with the offer
document:
a) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V including additional confirmations as
      specified in Form E of Schedule V;
b) in case of a fast track issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate from the
      debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V.
Explanation: For the purposes of this regulation: “reference date” means the date of 281[filing] the
red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue)
with the Registrar of Companies.


Post-listing exit opportunity for dissenting shareholders
157. In case of further public offers, including under the fast track route, the promoters or
shareholders in control of an issuer shall provide an exit offer to dissenting shareholders as
provided for in the Companies Act, 2013, in case of change in objects or variation in the terms of
contract related to objects referred to in the offer document as per conditions and manner is
provided in Schedule XX;
Provided that the exit offer shall not apply where there are neither identifiable promoters nor
shareholders in control of the listed issuer.




281
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.

                                                   121
                              CHAPTER V – PREFERENTIAL ISSUE


Provisions of this chapter not to apply in certain cases
158. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where the preferential issue of equity
shares is made pursuant to:
a)    conversion of a loan or an option attached to convertible debt instruments in terms of sub-
      sections 282[***] (3) and (4) of section 62 of the Companies Act, 2013, whichever is
      applicable;
      283
            [Provided that the provisions of this chapter shall apply to conversion of a loan or an
      option attached to convertible debt instruments into equity shares as mentioned in clause (a)
      subject to the provisions of the proviso to sub-section (3) of section 62 of the Companies
      Act, 2013.]
b)    a scheme approved by a High Court under section 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or
      approved by a tribunal or the Central Government under sections 230 to 234 of the
      Companies Act, 2013, as applicable;
      Provided that the pricing provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the issuance of shares
      under schemes mentioned in clause (b) in case of allotment of shares only to a select group
      of shareholders or shareholders of unlisted companies pursuant to such schemes;
c)    a qualified institutions placement in accordance with Chapter VI of these regulations.
(2) The provisions of this Chapter, except the lock-in provisions, shall not apply where the
preferential issue of specified securities is made in terms of the rehabilitation scheme approved by
the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special
Provisions) Act, 1985 [1 of 1986] or the resolution plan approved under Section 31 of the
Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 of 2016], whichever is applicable.
(3) The provisions of this Chapter relating to pricing and lock-in shall not apply to equity shares
allotted to any financial institution within the meaning of sub-clauses (ia) and (ii) of clause (h) of
section 2 of the Recovery of Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of
1993).
(4) The provisions of regulation 163 and sub-regulations (1), (2), (3) and (4) of regulation 164
shall not apply to a preferential issue of equity shares and compulsorily convertible debt
instruments, whether fully or partly, where the Board has granted relaxation to the issuer in terms


282
    The words, numbers and symbols “(3) and (4) of sections 81 of the Companies Act, 1956 or sub-section” omitted
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
283
    Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                      122
of regulation 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares
and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, if adequate disclosures about the plan and process proposed to
be followed for identifying the allottees are given in the explanatory statement to notice for the
general meeting of the shareholders.
(5) The provisions of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 159 and sub-regulation (6) of regulation 167
shall not apply to a preferential issue of specified securities where the proposed allottee is a
mutual fund registered with the Board or insurance company registered with Insurance Regulatory
and Development Authority of India or a scheduled commercial bank or a public financial
institution.
(6) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where the preferential issue of specified
securities is made to the lenders pursuant to conversion of their debt, as part of a debt
restructuring [***]284 implemented in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve
Bank of India, subject to the following conditions:
a)      guidelines for determining the conversion price have been specified by the Reserve Bank
        of India in accordance with which the conversion price shall be determined and which
        shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013;
b)      conversion price shall be certified by two independent valuers;
c)      specified securities so allotted shall be locked-in for a period of one year from the date of
        their allotment
        Provided that for the purpose of transferring the control, the lenders may transfer the
        specified securities allotted to them before completion of the lock-in period subject to
        continuation of the lock-in on such securities for the remaining period, with the transferee;
d)      the lock-in of equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion of convertible securities issued
        on preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have already
        been locked-in;
e)      the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 are complied with, including the
        requirement of a special resolution.




284
   Word “scheme” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 29.03.2019.
            a.

                                                 123
         [Explanation. – For the purpose of this sub-regulation, “lenders” shall mean all scheduled
         commercial banks (excluding Regional Rural Banks) and All India Financial
         Institutions.]285


[***]286


PART I: ISSUERS INELIGIBLE TO MAKE A PREFERENTIAL ISSUE


159. (1) Preferential issue of specified securities shall not be made to any person who has sold or
transferred any equity shares of the issuer during the 287[90 trading days] preceding the relevant
date:
Provided that in respect of the preferential issue of equity shares and compulsorily convertible
debt instruments, whether fully or partly, the Board may grant relaxation from the requirements of
this sub-regulation, if the Board has granted relaxation in terms of sub-regulation (2) of regulation




285
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 29.03.2019.
286
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 29.03.2019. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (7) read as follows,-
         “(7)     The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where the preferential issue of specified securities is
         made to person(s) at the time of lenders selling their holding of specified securities or enforcing change in
         ownership in favour of such person(s) pursuant to a debt restructuring scheme implemented in accordance
         with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank of India, subject to the following conditions:
           a)     guidelines for determining the issue price have been specified by the Reserve Bank of India in
                  accordance with which the issue price shall be determined and which shall be in compliance with
                  the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013;
           b)     issue price shall be certified by two independent valuers;
           c)     specified securities so allotted shall be locked-in for a period of at least three years from the date of
                  their allotment;
           d)     lock-in of equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion of convertible securities issued on
                  preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have already been locked-
                  in;
           e)     special resolution has been passed by shareholders of the issuer before the preferential issue;
           f)     issuer shall, in addition to the disclosures required under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other
                  applicable law, disclose the following information pertaining to the proposed allottee(s) in the
                  explanatory statement to the notice for the general meeting proposed for passing the special
                  resolution as stipulated at clause (e) of this sub-regulation:
              b. identity, including that of the natural persons, who are the ultimate beneficial owners of the shares
                  proposed to be allotted and/ or who ultimately control the proposed allottee(s);
              c. business model;
              d. statement on growth of business over a period of time;
              e. summary of audited financial statements of previous three financial years;
              f. track record, if any, in turning around companies;
              g. proposed roadmap for effecting turnaround of the issuer.
              h. applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 are complied with.”
287
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “six months”.

                                                           124
11      of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 to such a preferential allotment.
Explanation: Where any person belonging to promoter(s) or the promoter group has sold/
transferred their equity shares in the issuer during the 288[90 trading days] preceding the relevant
date, the promoter(s) and promoter group shall be ineligible for allotment of specified securities
on preferential basis.
Provided that the above restriction shall not apply to any sale of equity shares by any person
belonging to promoter(s) of the promoter group which qualifies for inter-se transfer amongst
qualifying persons under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 10 of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover Regulations), 2011 or
in case of transfer of shares held by the promoters or promoter group on account of invocation of
pledge by a scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution or a systemically important
non- banking finance company or mutual fund or insurance company registered with the
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority.
(2) Where any person belonging to promoter(s) or the promoter group has previously subscribed
to warrants of an issuer but has failed to exercise the warrants, the promoter(s) and promoter
group shall be ineligible for issue of specified securities of such issuer on preferential basis for a
period of one year from:
           a)     the date of expiry of the tenure of the warrants due to non-exercise of the option to
                  convert; or
           b)     the date of cancellation of the warrants, as the case may be.
(3) An issuer shall not be eligible to make a preferential issue if any of its promoters or directors
is a fugitive economic offender.
289
      [(4) An issuer shall not be eligible to make a preferential issue if it has any outstanding dues to
the Board, the stock exchanges or the depositories:
Provided that sub-regulation (4) shall not be applicable in a case where such outstanding dues are
the subject matter of a pending appeal or proceeding(s), which has been admitted by the relevant
Court, Tribunal or Authority, as the case may be.]


PART II: CONDITIONS FOR PREFERENTIAL ISSUE




288
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “six months”.
289
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                    125
Conditions for preferential issue
160. A listed issuer making a preferential issue of specified securities shall ensure that:
a)       all equity shares allotted by way of preferential issue shall be made fully paid up at the time
         of the allotment;
b)       a special resolution has been passed by its shareholders;
c)       all equity shares held by the proposed allottees in the issuer are in dematerialised form
         290
               [before an application seeking in-principle approval is made by the issuer to the stock
         exchange(s) where its equity shares are listed];
d)       the issuer is in compliance with the conditions for continuous listing of equity shares as
         specified in the listing agreement with the stock exchange where the equity shares of the
         issuer are listed and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
         Disclosure Requirements), 2015, as amended, and any circular or notification issued by the
         Board thereunder;
e)       the issuer has obtained the Permanent Account Numbers of the proposed allottees, except
         those allottees which may be exempt from specifying their Permanent Account Number for
         transacting in the securities market by the Board 291[before an application seeking in-
         principle approval is made by the issuer to the stock exchange(s) where its equity shares are
         listed].
292
      [(f) the issuer has made an application seeking in-principle approval to the stock exchange(s),
         where its equity shares are listed, on the same day when the notice has been sent in respect
         of the general meeting seeking shareholders’ approval by way of special resolution.]


Relevant date
161. For the purpose of this Chapter, "relevant date" means:
a)       in case of preferential issue of equity shares, the date thirty days prior to the date on which
         the meeting of shareholders is held to consider the proposed preferential issue:
         Provided that in case of a preferential issue of specified securities pursuant to any resolution
         of stressed assets under a framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India or a resolution
         plan approved by the National Company Law Tribunal under the Insolvency and




290
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
291
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
292
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                    126
         Bankruptcy Code 2016,, the date of approval of the corporate debt restructuring package or
         resolution plan shall be the relevant date.
b)       in case of a preferential issue of convertible securities, either the relevant date referred to in
         clause (a) of this regulation or a date thirty days prior to the date on which the holders of the
         convertible securities become entitled to apply for the equity shares.
Explanation: Where the relevant date falls on a weekend or a holiday, the day preceding the
weekend or the holiday will be reckoned to be the relevant date.


Tenure of convertible securities
162. 293(1) The tenure of the convertible securities of the issuer shall not exceed eighteen months
from the date of their allotment.
294
      [(2) Upon exercise of the option by the allottee to convert the convertible securities within the
tenure specified in sub-regulation (1), the issuer shall ensure that the allotment of equity shares
pursuant to exercise of the convertible securities is completed within 15 days from the date of
such exercise by the allottee.]


295[Monitoring agency


162A. (1) If the issue size exceeds one hundred crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements
for the use of proceeds of the issue to be monitored by a credit rating agency registered with the
Board:
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made
by a bank or public financial institution or an insurance company.
(2) The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule
XI on a quarterly basis, till hundred percent of the proceeds of the issue have been utilised.
(3) The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the
findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, upload the report of the
monitoring agency on its website and also submit the same to the stock exchange(s) on which its
equity shares are listed.]



293
    The existing text of regulation 162 renumbered as sub-regulation (1) of regulation 162 by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
14.1.2022.
294
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
295
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.

                                                       127
PART III: DISCLOSURES TO SHAREHOLDERS


163. (1) The issuer shall, in addition to the disclosures required under the Companies Act, 2013 or
any other applicable law, disclose the following in the explanatory statement to the notice for the
general meeting proposed for passing the special resolution:
a)       objects of the preferential issue;
b)       maximum number of specified securities to be issued;
c)       intent of the promoters, directors296[, key managerial personnel or senior management] of
         the issuer to subscribe to the offer;
d)       shareholding pattern of the issuer before and after the preferential issue;
e)       time frame within which the preferential issue shall be completed;
f)       identity of the natural persons who are the ultimate beneficial owners of the shares proposed
         to be allotted and/or who ultimately control the proposed allottees 297[***]:
         Provided that if there is any listed company, mutual fund, scheduled commercial bank,
         insurance company registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of
         India in the chain of ownership of the proposed allottee, no further disclosure will be
         necessary.
         Explanation: For the purpose of identification of the ultimate beneficial owners of the
         allottees, where the allottees are institutions/entities, the identification of such ultimate
         beneficial owners, shall be in accordance with the guidelines prescribed by the Board, if any.
298
      [(fa) the percentage of post preferential issue capital that may be held by the allottee(s) and
change in control, if any, in the issuer consequent to the preferential issue]
g)       undertaking that the issuer shall re-compute the price of the specified securities in terms of
         the provision of these regulations where it is required to do so;
h)       undertaking that if the amount payable on account of the re-computation of price is not paid
         within the time stipulated in these regulations, the specified securities shall continue to be
         locked- in till the time such amount is paid by the allottees.
i)       disclosures specified in Schedule VI, if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a
         299
               [wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower].


296
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “or key managerial personnel”.
297
    The symbols and words “, the percentage of post preferential issue capital that may be held by them and change in
control, if any, in the issuer consequent to the preferential issue” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
298
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                        128
300
      [(j) the current and proposed status of the allottee(s) post the preferential issues namely,
promoter or non-promoter.]
(2) The issuer shall place a copy of the certificate of 301[a practicing company secretary] before
the general meeting of the shareholders considering the proposed preferential issue, certifying that
the issue is being made in accordance with the requirements of these regulations.
302
      [Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-regulation (2), the issuer shall also host the certificate
on its website and provide a link for the same in the notice for the general meeting of the
shareholders considering the proposed preferential issue.]
303
      [(3) Specified securities may be issued on a preferential basis for consideration other than cash:
Provided that consideration other than cash shall comprise only swap of shares pursuant to a
valuation report by an independent registered valuer, which shall be submitted to the stock
exchange(s) where the equity shares of the issuer are listed:]
Provided 304[further] that if the stock exchange(s) is not satisfied with the appropriateness of the
valuation, it may get the valuation done by any other valuer and for this purpose it may seek any
information, as deemed necessary, from the issuer.
(4) The special resolution shall specify the relevant date on the basis of which price of the equity
shares to be allotted on conversion or exchange of convertible securities shall be calculated.


PART IV: PRICING


Pricing of frequently traded shares
164. (1) If the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on a recognised stock exchange for a
period of 305[90 trading days] or more as on the relevant date, the price of the equity shares to be
allotted pursuant to the preferential issue shall be not less than higher of the following:


299
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
300
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
301
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “its statutory auditors”.
302
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
303
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows:
       “(3) Where the specified securities are issued on a preferential basis for consideration other than
       cash, the valuation of the assets in consideration for which the equity shares are issued shall be done
       by an independent valuer, which shall be submitted to the stock exchanges where the equity shares of
       the issuer are listed:”
304
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                    129
a. the 306[90 trading days’] volume weighted average price of the related equity shares quoted on
       the recognised stock exchange 307[***] preceding the relevant date; or
b. the 308[10 trading days’] volume weighted average prices of the related equity shares quoted
       on a recognised stock exchange 309[***] preceding the relevant date.
310
      [Provided that if the Articles of Association of the issuer provide for a method of determination
which results in a floor price higher than that determined under these regulations, then the same
shall be considered as the floor price for equity shares to be allotted pursuant to the preferential
issue.]
(2) If the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on a recognised stock exchange for a period
of less than 311[90 trading days] as on the relevant date, the price of the equity shares to be allotted
pursuant to the preferential issue shall be not less than the higher of the following:
a) the price at which equity shares were issued by the issuer in its initial public offer or the value
       per share arrived at in a scheme of compromise, arrangement and amalgamation under
       312
             [***] sections 230 to 234 the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, pursuant to which the
       equity shares of the issuer were listed, as the case may be; or
b) the average of the 313[***] volume weighted average prices of the related equity shares quoted
       on the recognised stock exchange during the period the equity shares have been listed
       preceding the relevant date; or
c) the average of the 314[10 trading days’] volume weighted average prices of the related equity
       shares quoted on a recognised stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant
       date.




305
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “twenty six weeks”.
306
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “average of the weekly high and low of the”.
307
    The words “during the twenty six weeks” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
308
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “average of the weekly high and low of the”.
309
    The words “during the two weeks” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
310
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
311
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “twenty six weeks”.
312
    The words, numbers and symbols “sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or” omitted by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
14.1.2022.
313
    The words “weekly high and low of the” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
314
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “weekly high and low of the”.

                                                       130
315
      [Provided that if the Articles of Association of the issuer provide for a method of determination
which results in a floor price higher than that determined under these regulations, then the same
shall be considered as the floor price for equity shares to be allotted pursuant to the preferential
issue.]
(3) Where the price of the equity shares is determined in terms of sub-regulation (2), such price
shall be recomputed by the issuer on completion of 316[90 trading days] from the date of listing on
a recognised stock exchange with reference to the 317[90 trading days’] volume weighted average
prices of the related equity shares quoted on the recognised stock exchange during these 318[90
trading days] and if such recomputed price is higher than the price paid on allotment, the
difference shall be paid by the allottees to the issuer.
319
      [Provided that if the Articles of Association of the issuer provide for a method of determination
which results in a floor price higher than that determined under these regulations, then the same
shall be considered as the floor price for equity shares to be allotted pursuant to the preferential
issue.]
(4) 320[(a)] A preferential issue of specified securities to qualified institutional buyers, not
exceeding five in number, shall be made at a price not less than the 321[10 trading days’] volume
weighted average prices of the related equity shares quoted on a recognised stock exchange
322
      [***] preceding the relevant date.
323
      [Provided that if the Articles of Association of the issuer provide for a method of determination
which results in a floor price higher than that determined under these regulations, then the same
shall be considered as the floor price for equity shares to be allotted pursuant to the preferential
issue:]




315
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
316
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “twenty six weeks”.
317
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “average of the weekly high and low of the”.
318
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “twenty six weeks”.
319
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
320
    The existing text of sub-regulation (4) renumbered as clause (a) of sub-regulation (4) by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
14.1.2022.
321
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “average of the weekly high and low of the”.
322
    The words “during the two weeks” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
323
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                     131
324
      [(b) no allotment shall be made, either directly or indirectly, to any qualified institutional buyer
who is a promoter or any person related to the promoters of the issuer:
Provided that a qualified institutional buyer who does not hold any shares in the issuer and who
has acquired rights in the capacity of a lender shall not be deemed to be a person related to the
promoters.
Explanation. — For the purpose of this clause, a qualified institutional buyer who has any of the
following rights shall be deemed to be a person related to the promoters of the issuer:-
         (a) rights under a shareholders‘ agreement or voting agreement entered into with promoters
         or promoter group;
         (b) veto rights; or
         (c) right to appoint any nominee director on the board of the issuer.]

(5) For the purpose of this Chapter, “frequently traded shares” means the shares of the issuer, in
which the traded turnover on any recognised stock exchange during the 325[240 trading days]
preceding the relevant date, is at least ten per cent of the total number of shares of such class of
shares of the issuer:
Provided that where the share capital of a particular class of shares of the issuer is not identical
throughout such period, the weighted average number of total shares of such class of the issuer
shall represent the total number of shares.
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, ‘stock exchange’ means any of the recognised
stock exchange(s) in which the equity shares of the issuer are listed and in which the highest
trading volume in respect of the equity shares of the issuer has been recorded during the preceding
326
      [90 trading days] prior to the relevant date.


327
      [Pricing in preferential issue of shares of companies having stressed assets
164A. (1) In case of frequently traded shares, the price of the equity shares to be allotted pursuant
to the preferential issue shall not be less than the 328{10 trading days’} volume weighted average




324
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
325
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “twelve calendar months”.
326
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “twenty six weeks”.
327
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w-e-f 22.06.2020.
328
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “average of the weekly high and low of the”.

                                                      132
price of the related equity shares quoted on a recognised stock exchange 329{***} preceding
the relevant date.
(2) No allotment of equity shares shall be made unless the issuer company meets any two of the
following criteria:
  a) the issuer has      disclosed all the defaults relating to the payment of interest/ repayment
      of principal amount on loans from banks / financial institutions/ Systemically Important
      Non-Deposit taking Non-banking financial companies/ Deposit taking Non-banking
      financial companies and /or listed or unlisted debt securities in terms of SEBI Circular
      dated November 21, 2019 and such payment default is continuing for a period of at least 90
      calendar days after the occurrence of such default;
  b) there is an Inter-creditor agreement in terms of Reserve Bank of India (Prudential Framework
      for Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions 2019 dated June 07, 2019;
  c) the credit rating of the financial instruments (listed or unlisted), credit instruments /
      borrowings (listed or unlisted) of the listed company has been downgraded to “D”.
(3) The issuer company making the preferential issue shall ensure compliance with the
following conditions:
 a) The preference issue shall be made to a person not part of the promoter or promoter group as
      on the date of the board meeting to consider the preferential issue. The preference
      issue shall not be made to the following entities:
         (i) undischarged insolvent in terms of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016;
         (ii) ‘330{wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower}’ as per the guidelines of the Reserve
             Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949;
         (iii) person disqualified to act as a director under the Companies Act,2013;
         (iv) a person debarred from trading in securities or accessing the securities market
             by the Board;
             Explanation:       The restriction under (iv) shall not apply to the persons or
             entities mentioned therein who were debarred in the past by the Board and the
             period of debarment is already over as on the date of the board meeting considering
             the preferential issue.
         (v) a person declared as a fugitive economic offender;




329
    The words “during the two weeks” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
330
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.

                                                     133
             (vi) a    person   who    has   been     convicted     for    any    offence     punishable      with
                 imprisonment-
                      A. For two years or more under any Act specified under the Twelfth Schedule of
                      the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
                      B. For seven years or more under any law for the time being in force:
                      Provided that such restriction shall not be applicable to a person after the
                      expiry of a period two years from the date of his release from imprisonment.
            (vii) A person who has executed a guarantee in favour of a lender of the issuer and such
                 guarantee has been invoked by the lender and remains unpaid in full or part.
(4) The resolution for the preferential issue and exemption from open offer shall provide for the
  following:
 a) The votes cast by the shareholders in the ‘public’ category in favour of the proposal shall be
      more than the number of votes cast against it. The proposed allottee(s) in the preferential
      issue that already hold specified securities shall not be included in the category of ‘public’ for
      this purpose:
      Provided that where the company does not have an identifiable promoter; the resolution
      shall be deemed to have been passed if the votes cast in favour are not less than three times
      the number of the votes, if any, cast against it.
(5) The proceeds of such preferential issue shall not be used for any repayment of loans taken
  from promoters/ promoter group/ group companies. The proposed use of proceeds shall be
  disclosed in the explanatory statement sent for the purpose of the shareholder resolution.
(6) (a) The issuer shall make arrangements for monitoring the use of proceeds of the issue by a
      331
            [credit rating agency registered with the Board]:
             (i) The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in
                 terms of Schedule XI (with fields as applicable) on a quarterly basis 332[till hundred
                 percent] of the proceeds of the issue have been utilized.
             (ii) (The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their
                 comments on the findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
             (iii) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publicly
                 disseminate the report of the monitoring agency by uploading the same on its website



331
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022 for the words “public financial institution or by a scheduled
commercial bank, which is not a related party to the issuer”.
332
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022 for the words “until at least ninety five percent”.

                                                       134
               as well as submit the same to the stock exchange(s) on which the equity shares of the
               issuer are listed.
        (b) The proceeds of the issue shall also be monitored by the Audit Committee till
        utilization of the proceeds.
(7) The allotment made shall be locked-in for a period of three years from the last date of trading
approval.
(8) The statutory auditor and the audit committee shall certify that all conditions under sub-
regulations (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of regulation 164A are met at the time of dispatch of notice for
general meeting proposed for passing the special resolution and at the time of allotment.]


333[Optional pricing in preferential issue


164B. (1) In case of frequently traded shares, the price of the equity shares to be allotted pursuant
to the preferential issue shall be determined by regulation 164 or regulation 164B, as opted
for.
(2) The price of the equity shares to be allotted pursuant to the preferential issue shall not be less
than the higher of the following:
  (a) the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average price of the related
equity shares quoted on the recognised stock exchange during the twelve weeks preceding
the relevant date; or
      (b) the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average prices of the
related equity shares quoted on a recognised stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the
relevant date.
(3) Specified securities allotted on a preferential basis using the pricing method determined
under sub-regulation (2) shall be locked-in for a period of three years.
(4) The pricing method determined at sub-regulation (2) shall be availed in case of allotment by
preferential issue made between July 01, 2020 or from the date of notification of this
regulation, whichever is later and December 31, 2020.
(5) All allotments arising out of the same shareholders approval shall follow the same pricing
method.]


Pricing of infrequently traded shares




333
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w-e-f 01.07.2020.

                                                    135
165. Where the shares of an issuer are not frequently traded, the price determined by the issuer
shall take into account the valuation parameters including book value, comparable trading
multiples, and such other parameters as are customary for valuation of shares of such companies:
Provided that the issuer shall submit a certificate stating that the issuer is in compliance of this
regulation, obtained from an independent 334[registered] valuer to the stock exchange where the
equity shares of the issuer are listed.


Adjustments in pricing - Frequently and Infrequently traded shares
166. 335[(1)] The price determined for a preferential issue in accordance with 336[, regulations 164,
164A, 164B or 165,], shall be subject to appropriate adjustments, if the issuer:
a)       makes an issue of equity shares by way of capitalization of profits or reserves, other than by
         way of a dividend on shares;
b)       makes an issue of equity shares after completion of a demerger wherein the securities of the
         resultant demerged entity are listed on a stock exchange;
c)       makes a rights issue of equity shares;
d)       consolidates its outstanding equity shares into a smaller number of shares;
e)       divides its outstanding equity shares including by way of stock split;
f)       re-classifies any of its equity shares into other securities of the issuer;
g)       is involved in such other similar events or circumstances, which in the opinion of the
         concerned stock exchange, require adjustments.
337
      [(2) The effect on the price of the equity shares of the issuer due to material price movement
and confirmation of reported event or information may be excluded as per the framework
specified under sub-regulation (11) of regulation 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for determination of the
price for a preferential issue in accordance with regulations 164, 164A, 164B or 165 of these
regulations.]




334
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
335
    Existing regulation renumbered as sub-regulation (1) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
336
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “regulation 164 or regulation 165”.
337
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.

                                                      136
338
      [Other conditions for pricing

166A. (1) Any preferential issue, which may result in a change in control or allotment of more
than five per cent. of the post issue fully diluted share capital of the issuer, to an allottee or to
allottees acting in concert, shall require a valuation report from an independent registered valuer
and consider the same for determining the price:

Provided that the floor price, in such cases, shall be higher of the floor price determined under
sub-regulation (1), (2) or (4) of regulation 164, as the case may be, or the price determined under
the valuation report from the independent registered valuer or the price determined in accordance
with the provisions of the Articles of Association of the issuer, if applicable:

Provided further that if any proposed preferential issue is likely to result in a change in control of
the issuer, the valuation report from the registered valuer shall also cover guidance on control
premium, which shall be computed over and above the price determined in terms of the first
proviso:

Provided further that the valuation report from the registered valuer shall be published on the
website of the issuer and a reference of the same shall be made in the notice calling the general
meeting of shareholders.

(2) Any preferential issue, which may result in a change in control of the issuer, shall only be
made pursuant to a reasoned recommendation from a committee of independent directors of the
issuer after considering all the aspects relating to the preferential issue including pricing, and the
voting pattern of the said committee’s meeting shall be disclosed in the notice calling the general
meeting of shareholders.

Explanation.—The meeting of the independent directors referred in sub-regulation (2) shall be
attended by all the independent directors on the board of the issuer.]

PART V: LOCK-IN AND RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERABILITY


Lock-in
167. (1) The specified securities, allotted on a preferential basis to the promoters or promoter
group and the equity shares allotted pursuant to exercise of options attached to warrants issued on
a preferential basis to the promoters or the promoter group, shall be locked-in for a period of



338
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                  137
339
      [18 months] from the date of trading approval granted for the specified securities or equity
shares allotted pursuant to exercise of the option attached to warrant, as the case may be:
Provided that not more than twenty per cent. of the total capital of the issuer shall be locked-in for
340
      [18 months] from the date of trading approval:
Provided further that equity shares allotted in excess of the twenty per cent. shall be locked-in for
341
      [six months] from the date of trading approval pursuant to exercise of options or otherwise, as
the case may be.
Provided further that in case of convertible securities or warrants which are not listed on stock
exchanges, such securities shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of allotment.
(2) The specified securities allotted on a preferential basis to persons other than the promoters
and promoter group and the equity shares allotted pursuant to exercise of options attached to
warrants issued on preferential basis to such persons shall be locked-in for a period of 342[six
months] from the date of trading approval.
Provided that in case of convertible securities or warrants which are not listed on stock exchanges,
such securities shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of allotment.
(3) Lock-in of the equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion of convertible securities other
than warrants, issued on preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities
have already been locked-in.
(4) The equity shares issued on a preferential basis pursuant to any resolution of stressed assets
under a framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India or a resolution plan approved by the
National Company Law Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016, shall be
locked-in for a period of one year from the trading approval:
343
      [Provided that the lock-in provision shall not be applicable to the specified securities to the
extent to achieve 10% public shareholding.]
(5) If the amount payable by the allottee, in case of re-calculation of price under sub-regulation
(3) of regulation 164 is not paid till the expiry of lock-in period, the equity shares shall continue to
be locked-in till such amount is paid by the allottee.




339
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “three years”.
340
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “three years”.
341
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “one year”.
342
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “one year”.
343
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f
08.01.2021.

                                                   138
(6) The entire pre-preferential allotment shareholding of the allottees, if any, shall be locked-in
from the relevant date up to a period of 344[90 trading days] from the date of trading approval:
Provided that in case of convertible securities or warrants which are not listed on stock exchanges,
the entire pre-preferential allotment shareholding of the allottees, if any, shall be locked-in from
the relevant date up to a period of 345[90 trading days] from the date of allotment of such
securities.
346
      [(7) Lock-in requirements for an allottee who has become a promoter due to change in control
consequent to the preferential issue shall be the same as those applicable to the promoters and
promoter group under this regulation.]
Explanation 1: For the purpose of this regulation:
(I)     The expression “total capital of the issuer” means:
        (a) equity share capital issued by way of public issue or rights issue including equity shares
        issued pursuant to conversion of specified securities which are convertible; and
        (b) specified securities issued on a preferential basis to the promoters or the promoters
        group.
(II) For the computation of twenty per cent. of the total capital of the issuer, the amount of
        minimum promoters’ contribution held and locked-in, in the past in terms of Securities and
        Exchange Board of India (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 or these
        regulations shall be taken into account.
(III) The minimum promoters’ contribution shall not be put under fresh lock-in again, even
        though it is considered for computing the requirement of twenty per cent. of the total capital
        of the issuer, in case the said minimum promoters’ contribution is free of lock-in at the time
        of the preferential issue.
Explanation 2: For the purposes of this regulation, the date of trading approval shall mean the
latest date when trading approval has been granted by all the stock exchanges where the equity
shares of the issuer are listed, for specified securities allotted as per the provisions of this Chapter.




344
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “six months”.
345
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “six months”.
346
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                   139
347[Pledge of locked-in specified securities


167A. Specified securities, except SR equity shares, held by the promoters and locked-in under
the provisions of these regulations, may be pledged as collateral for a loan granted by a scheduled
commercial bank or a public financial institution or a systemically important non-banking finance
company or a housing finance company:
Provided that the loan has been granted to the issuer or its subsidiary(ies) for the purpose of
financing one or more of the objects of the issue and pledge of specified securities is one of the
conditions for sanction of the loan:
Provided further that the lock-in on the specified securities shall continue pursuant to the
invocation of the pledge and the entity invoking the pledge shall not be eligible to transfer the
specified securities till the lock-in period stipulated in these regulations has expired.]


Transferability
168. (1)   Subject to the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial
Acquisition of shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, specified securities held by promoters
and locked-in in terms of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 167, may be transferred among the
promoters or the promoter group or to a new promoter or persons in control of the issuer:
Provided that the lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with
the transferee.
(2) The specified securities allotted on a preferential basis shall not be transferable by the
allottees till the trading approval is granted for such securities by all the recognised stock
exchanges where the equity shares of the issuer are listed.


PART VI: CONSIDERATION AND ALLOTMENT


Payment of consideration
169. (1) Full consideration of specified securities other than warrants, shall be paid by the
allottees at the time of allotment of such specified securities except in case of shares issued for
consideration other than cash.
Provided that in case of a preferential issue of specified securities pursuant to any resolution of
stressed assets under a framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India or a resolution plan
approved by the National Company Law Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code
2016, the consideration may be in terms of such scheme.

347
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                  140
(2) In the case of warrants, an amount equivalent to at least twenty five per cent. of the
consideration determined in terms of regulation 164 shall be paid against each warrant on the date
of allotment of warrants and the balance seventy five per cent. of the consideration shall be paid at
the time of allotment of the equity shares pursuant to exercise of options against each such
warrant by the warrant holder.
Provided that in case the exercise price of the warrants is based on the formula, at least twenty-
five per cent. of the consideration amount calculated as per the formula with conversion date
being the relevant date shall be paid against each warrant on the date of allotment of warrants and
the balance consideration shall be paid at the time of allotment of the equity shares pursuant to
exercise of options against each such warrant by the warrant holder.
(3) In case the warrant holder does not exercise the option for equity shares against any of the
warrants held by the warrant holder, the consideration paid in respect of such warrant in terms of
sub-regulation (2) shall be forfeited by the issuer.
(4) The issuer shall ensure that the consideration of specified securities, if paid in cash, shall be
received from respective allottee's bank account and in the case of joint holders, shall be received
from the bank account of the person whose name appears first in the application.
(5) The issuer shall submit a certificate from the statutory auditors to the stock exchanges where
the equity shares of the issuer are listed stating that the issuer is in compliance of sub-regulation
(4) and the relevant documents thereof are maintained by the issuer as on the date of certification.


Allotment
170. (1) Allotment pursuant to the special resolution shall be completed within a period of fifteen
days from the date of passing of such resolution:
Provided that where any application for exemption from the applicability of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or
any approval or permission by any regulatory authority or the Central Government for allotment is
pending, the period of fifteen days shall be counted from the date of the order on such application
or the date of approval or permission, as the case may be:
Provided further that where the Board has granted relaxation to the issuer in terms of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
Regulations, 2011, the preferential issue of equity shares and compulsorily convertible debt
instruments, whether fully or partly, shall be made by it within such time as may be specified by
the Board in its order granting the relaxation:
Provided further that requirement of allotment within fifteen days shall not apply to allotment of
specified securities on preferential basis pursuant to any resolution of stressed assets under a

                                                  141
framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India or a resolution plan approved by the National
Company Law Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016.
(2) If the allotment of the specified securities is not completed within fifteen days from the date of
special resolution, a fresh special resolution shall be passed and the relevant date for determining
the price of specified securities under this Chapter shall be taken with reference to the date of the
latter special resolution.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, where a preferential allotment is made
that attracts an obligation to make an open offer for shares of the issuer under Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011,
and there is no offer made under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20 of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, the
period of fifteen days shall be considered from the expiry of the period specified in sub-regulation
(1) of regulation 20 or date of receipt of all statutory approvals required for the completion of an
open offer under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares
and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011:
Provided that if an offer is made under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20 of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, the
period of fifteen days shall be counted from the expiry of the offer period as defined in the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
Regulation, 2011:
Provided further that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply to an offer made under
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, pursuant to a preferential allotment.”
(4) Allotment of the specified securities shall be made only in dematerialised form.
Explanation: The requirement of allotment in dematerialised form shall also be applicable for
the equity shares to be allotted pursuant to exercise of option attached to warrant or conversion of
convertible securities.




                                                 142
                      CHAPTER VI – QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT


 Definitions
 171. For the purpose of this Chapter:
 a) “eligible securities” include equity shares, non-convertible debt instruments along with warrants
        and convertible securities other than warrants;
348
      [(b)] "relevant date" means:
        (i) in case of allotment of equity shares, the date of the meeting in which the board of directors
            of the issuer or the committee of directors duly authorised by the board of directors of the
            issuer decides to open the proposed issue;
        (ii) in case of allotment of eligible convertible securities, either the date of the meeting in which
            the board of directors of the issuer or the committee of directors duly authorised by the board
            of directors of the issuer decides to open the issue of such convertible securities or the date on
            which the holders of such convertible securities become entitled to apply for the equity
            shares.


 PART I: CONDITIONS FOR QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT


 Eligibility conditions
 172. (1) A listed issuer may make a qualified institutions placement of eligible securities if it satisfies
 the following conditions:
 a)       a special resolution approving the qualified institutions placement has been passed by its
          shareholders, and the special resolution shall, among other relevant matters, specify that the
          allotment is proposed to be made through qualified institutions placement and the relevant date
          referred to in 349[***] clause (b) of regulation 171;
          Provided that no shareholders’ resolution will be required in case the qualified institutions
          placement is through an offer for sale by promoters or promoter group for compliance with
          minimum public shareholding requirements specified in the Securities Contracts (Regulation)
          Rules, 1957;




 348
      Renumbered as “(b)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
 Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
 349
     The words and symbols “sub-clause (ii) of” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
 and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                         143
      Provided further that allotment pursuant to the special resolution referred to in this clause (a) of
      regulation 172 shall be completed within a period of 365 days from the date of passing of the
      resolution.
b)    the equity shares of the same class, which are proposed to be allotted through qualified
      institutions placement or pursuant to conversion or exchange of eligible securities offered
      through qualified institutions placement, have been listed on a stock exchange for a period of at
      least one year prior to the date of issuance of notice to its shareholders for convening the
      meeting to pass the special resolution:
      Provided that where an issuer, being a transferee company in a scheme of compromise,
      arrangement and amalgamation sanctioned by a High Court 350[***] or approved by a tribunal
      or the Central Government under sections 230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013, whichever
      is applicable makes qualified institutions placement, the period for which the equity shares of
      the same class of the transferor company were listed on a stock exchange having nation-wide
      trading terminals shall also be considered for the purpose of computation of the period of one
      year.
      Provided further that this clause shall not be applicable to an issuer proposing to undertake
      qualified institutional placement for complying with the minimum public shareholding
      requirements specified in the 351[Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957].
      Explanation: For the purpose of clause (b), “equity shares of the same class” shall mean equity
      shares which rank pari-passu in relation to rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise.
c)    An issuer shall be eligible to make a qualified institutions placement if any of its promoters or
      directors is not a fugitive economic offender.
(2) All eligible securities issued through a qualified institutions placement shall be listed on the
recognised stock exchange where the equity shares of the issuer are listed.
Provided that the issuer shall seek approval under rule 19(7) of the Securities Contracts
(Regulation) Rules, 1957, if applicable.
(3) The issuer shall not make any subsequent qualified institutions placement until the expiry of [two
weeks]352 from the date of the prior qualified institutions placement made pursuant to one or more
special resolutions.


350
    The words, numbers and symbols “under sections 391-394 of the Companies Act, 1956” omitted by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
14.1.2022.
351
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words, numbers and symbols “Securities Contracts
(Regulation) 1957”.
352
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w-e-f 16.06.2020 for the words “six months”.

                                                     144
Conditions for offer for sale by promoters for compliance with minimum public
shareholding requirements specified in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
173. The promoters and members of the promoter group may make an offer for sale of fully paid
up equity shares, through a qualified institutions placement, for the purpose of achieving
minimum public shareholding in terms of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
Provided that the promoters or members of the promoter group shall not make such offer for sale if
the promoter or member of the promoter group has purchased or sold any equity shares of the issuer
during twelve weeks period prior to the date of the opening of the issue and they shall not purchase
or sell any equity shares of the issuer during the twelve weeks period after the date of closure of the
issue:
Provided further that such promoters or members of the promoter group may, within the twelve
week periods provided above, sell equity shares of the issuer held by them through offer for sale
through stock exchange mechanism specified by the Board or through an open market sale, in
accordance with the conditions specified by the Board from time to time, subject to the condition that
there shall be a gap of minimum two weeks between the two successive offer(s).


353[Monitoring agency


173A. (1) If the issue size, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders, exceeds
one hundred crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue
to be monitored by a credit rating agency registered with the Board:
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made
by a bank or public financial institution or an insurance company.
(2) The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule
XI on a quarterly basis, till hundred percent of the proceeds of the issue have been utilised.
(3) The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the
findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, upload the report of the
monitoring agency on its website and also submit the same to the stock exchange(s) on which its
equity shares are listed.]


PART II: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS



353
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.

                                                     145
174. (1) An issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with the
Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of
the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer
and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall, while seeking in-principle listing approval for the eligible
securities, furnish to each stock exchange on which the same class of equity shares of the issuer
are listed, a due diligence certificate stating that the eligible securities are being issued under
qualified institutions placement and that the issuer complies with requirements of this Chapter,
and also furnish a copy of the preliminary placement document along with any other document
required by the stock exchange.




PART III: PLACEMENT DOCUMENT


175. (1) The lead manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and shall satisfy themselves with all
aspects of the Issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosures in the offer document.
(2) The qualified institutions placement shall be made on the basis of a 354[preliminary placement
document and] placement document which shall contain all material information, including those
specified in the Companies Act, 2013, if any, and disclosures as specified in Schedule VII shall be
made, including as specified therein if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a 355[wilful
defaulter or a fraudulent borrower].
(3) The preliminary placement document and the placement document shall be serially numbered
and copies the same shall be circulated only to select investors.
(4) The preliminary placement document and the placement document shall be placed on the
websites of the relevant stock exchange(s) and of the issuer with a disclaimer to the effect that it is in
connection with a qualified institutions placement and that no offer is being made to the public or to
any other category of investors.



354
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
355
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.

                                                   146
PART IV: PRICING


176. (1) The qualified institutions placement shall be made at a price not less than the average of the
weekly high and low of the closing prices of the equity shares of the same class quoted on the stock
exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date:
Provided that the issuer may offer a discount of not more than five per cent. on the price so
calculated, subject to approval of shareholders as specified in clause (a) of regulation 172 of these
regulations, except that no shareholders’ approval will be required in case of a qualified institutions
placement made through an offer for sale by promoters for compliance with minimum public
shareholding requirements specified in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
(2) Where eligible securities are convertible into or exchangeable with equity shares of the issuer, the
issuer shall determine the price of such equity shares allotted pursuant to such conversion or
exchange taking the relevant date as disclosed in the special resolution referred to in clause (a) of sub
regulation (1) of regulation 172.
(3) The issuer shall not issue or allot partly paid-up eligible securities:
Provided that in case of allotment of non-convertible debt instruments along with warrants, the
allottees may pay the full consideration or part thereof payable with respect to warrants, at the time of
allotment of such warrants:
Provided further that on allotment of equity shares on exercise of options attached to warrants, such
equity shares shall be fully paid-up.
(4) The issue price shall be subject to appropriate adjustments, if the issuer:
       a) makes an issue of equity shares by way of capitalization of profits or reserves, other than by
           way of a dividend on shares;
       b) makes a rights issue of equity shares;
       c) consolidates its outstanding equity shares into a smaller number of shares;
       d) divides its outstanding equity shares including by way of stock split;
       e) re-classifies any of its equity shares into other securities of the issuer;
       f) is involved in such other similar events or circumstances, which in the opinion of the
           concerned stock exchange, requires adjustments.
356
      [(5) The effect on the price of the equity shares of the issuer due to material price movement and
confirmation of reported event or information may be excluded as per the framework specified under
sub-regulation (11) of regulation 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing

356
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.

                                                       147
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 for calculation of the issue price under
this regulation.]


Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (1), the term “stock exchange” means any of the
recognised stock exchanges in which the equity shares of the same class of the issuer are listed and in
which the highest trading volume in such equity shares has been recorded during the two weeks
immediately preceding the relevant date.


PART V: TENURE OF CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES


177. The tenure of the convertible or exchangeable eligible securities issued through qualified
institutions placement shall not exceed sixty months from the date of allotment.


PART VI: TRANSFERABILITY


178. The eligible securities allotted under the qualified institutions placement shall not be sold by the
allottee for a period of one year from the date of allotment, except on a recognised stock exchange.


PART VII: APPLICATION AND ALLOTMENT


179. (1) The applicants in qualified institutions placement shall not withdraw or revise downwards
their bids after the closure of the issue.
(2) Allotment of specified securities shall be made subject to the following conditions:
a)    minimum of ten per cent. of eligible securities shall be allotted to mutual funds:
      Provided that any unsubscribed portion of the said minimum percentage or any part thereof
      may be allotted to other qualified institutional buyers;
b)    no allotment shall be made, either directly or indirectly, to any qualified institutional buyer who
      is a promoter or any person related to the promoters of the issuer:
      Provided that a qualified institutional buyer who does not hold any shares in the issuer and
      who has acquired the said rights in the capacity of a lender shall not be deemed to be a
      person related to the promoters.
      Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, a qualified institutional buyer who has any of the
      following rights shall be deemed to be a person related to the promoters of the issuer:-
          (a)   rights under a shareholders‘ agreement or voting agreement entered into with
                promoters or promoter group;

                                                  148
            (b)   veto rights; or
            (c)   right to appoint any nominee director on the board of the issuer.
(3) In a qualified institutions placement of non-convertible debt instrument along with warrants,
an investor can subscribe to the combined offering of non-convertible debt instruments with
warrants or to the individual securities, that is, either non- convertible debt instruments or
warrants.


Minimum number of allottees
180. (1) The minimum number of allottees for each placement of eligible securities made under this
Chapter shall at least be:
a)    two, where the issue size is less than or equal to two hundred and fifty crore rupees;
b)    five, where the issue size is greater than two hundred and fifty crore rupees:
Provided that no single allottee shall be allotted more than fifty per cent. of the issue size.
(2) Qualified institutional buyers belonging to the same group or who are under same control shall be
deemed to be a single allottee.
Explanation: For the purpose of sub-regulation (2), the expression “qualified institutional buyers
belonging to the same group” shall mean entities where, - (i) any of them controls directly or
indirectly, through its subsidiary or holding company, not less than fifteen per cent. of the voting
rights in the other; or (ii) any of them directly or indirectly, by itself, or in combination with other
persons exercise control over the others; or (iii) there is a common director, excluding nominee
and independent directors amongst the investor, its subsidiary or holding company and any other
investor.


     CHAPTER VII - INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS


APPLICABILITY


181. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to an issue of Indian Depository Receipts
(hereinafter referred to as “IDR”) made in terms of the Companies Act, 2013 and Companies
(Registration of Foreign Companies) Rules, 2014.


PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS


Reference date



                                                    149
182. Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an issuer making a public issue of IDRs shall
satisfy the conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing draft offer document with the Board
and also as on the date of 357[filing] the offer document with the Registrar of Companies.


Eligibility conditions
183. (1) An issuer shall be eligible to make an issue of IDRs only if:
a)    the issuing company is listed in its home country for at least three immediately preceding
      years;
b)    the issuer is not prohibited to issue securities by any regulatory body;
c)    the issuer has a track record of compliance with the securities market regulations in its home
      country;
d)    any of its promoters or directors is not a fugitive economic offender.
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, the term “home country” means the country
where the issuer is incorporated and listed.
(2) The issue shall be subject to the following conditions:
a)    issue size shall not be less than fifty crore rupees;
b)    at any given time, there shall be only one denomination of IDRs of the issuer.
c)    issuer shall ensure that the underlying equity shares against which IDRs are issued have
      been or will be listed in its home country before listing of IDRs in stock exchange(s).
d)    issuer shall ensure that the underlying shares of IDRs shall rank pari passu with the existing
      shares of the same class.
(3) The issuer shall ensure that:
a)    it has made an application to one or more stock exchanges to seek an in-principle approval
      for listing of the IDRs on such stock exchanges and has chosen one of them as the
      designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX;
b)    it has entered into an agreement with a depository for dematerialisation of the IDRs
      proposed to be issued;
c)    it has made firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards seventy five per
      cent. of the stated means of finance for the project proposed to be funded from issue
      proceeds, excluding the amount to be raised through the proposed issue of IDRs or through
      existing identifiable internal accruals, have been made.




357
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.

                                                   150
 (4) The amount for general corporate purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft
       offer document and the offer document, shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the
       amount being raised by the issuer.


PART II: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER INTERMEDIARIES AND
COMPLIANCE OFFICER.


184. (1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with the
Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in consultation
with the lead manager and shall enter into an agreement with the lead manager on the lines of
format of agreement as specified in Schedule II.
(2) Where the issue is managed by more than one lead manager, the rights, obligations and
responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations,
if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft offer document
and the offer documents as specified in Schedule I.
(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of
the lead manager(s) is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer
and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.
(4) The issuer shall appoint a registrar to the issue, registered with the Board, which has
connectivity with all the depositories.
(5) The issuer shall enter into an agreement with an overseas custodian bank and a domestic
depository.
(6) The issuing company shall make arrangements for collection at centres as specified in
Schedule XII.
(7) The issuer shall appoint a 358[person qualified to be a company secretary as the] compliance
officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the securities laws and for
redressal of investors’ grievances.


PART IV: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS


Disclosures in the draft offer document and offer document


358
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.



                                                  151
185. (1) The offer document shall contain all material disclosures which are true, correct and
adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall contain:
     (a) disclosures specified in the Companies (Registration of Foreign Companies) Rules,
          2014; and
     (b) disclosures in the manner as specified in Part A of Schedule VIII.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves about all aspects of
the issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosure in the draft offer document and the
offer documents.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall call upon the issuer, its promoters or directors to fulfil their
obligations as disclosed by them in the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be,
and as required in terms of these Regulations.


Filing of the draft offer document and offer document
186. (1) Prior to making an initial public offer, the issuer shall file three copies of the draft offer
document with the Board, in accordance with Schedule IV, along with fees as specified in
Schedule III, through the lead manager(s).
(2) The draft offer document and the offer documents filed with the Board shall also be furnished
to the Board in a soft copy.
(3)The lead manager(s) shall:
a)    submit a certificate confirming that an agreement has been entered into between the issuer
      and the lead manager(s)
b)    submit a due diligence certificate as per format given in Part H of Schedule V to the Board
      along with the draft offer document;
c)    certify that all amendments, suggestions or observations made by the Board have been
      incorporated in the offer document;
d)    submit a due diligence certificate as per format given in Part C of Schedule V, at the time
      of filing the offer document with the Registrar of the Companies.
e)    a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule V, in the event the issuer has made a
      disclosure of any material development by issuing a public notice.
(4) The issuer shall, before filing the offer document with the Registrar of Companies, file with
the Board through the lead manager(s), an updated draft offer document highlighting all changes
made in the draft offer document.




                                                 152
(5) If there are any changes in the draft offer document in relation to the matters specified in
Schedule XVI, an updated offer document or a fresh draft offer document, as the case may be,
shall be filed with the Board along with fees specified in Schedule III.


(6) Copy of the offer documents shall also be filed with the Board and the stock exchange(s)
through the lead manager(s) promptly after 359[filing] the offer documents with the registrar of
companies.


Draft offer document and offer document to be available to the public
187. (1) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public for comments, if any,
for a period of at least twenty one days from the date of 360[publication of the public
announcement under sub-regulation (2)], by hosting it on the websites of 361[the issuer,] the
Board, stock exchanges where specified securities are proposed to be listed and lead manager(s)
associated with the issue.
(2) The issuer shall, within two 362[working] days of filing of the draft offer document with the
Board, make a public announcement in one English national daily newspaper with wide
circulation and one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation, disclosing to the public
the fact of filing of the draft offer document with the Board and inviting the public to provide their
comments to the Board, the issuer or the lead manager(s) in respect of the disclosures made in the
draft offer document.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with
the Board, details of the comments received by them or the issuer from the public, on the draft
offer document, during that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to be
made in the draft offer document.
(4) The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the offer documents are hosted on the
websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed
with the registrar of companies, Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable.
(5) The lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges shall provide copies of the offer document to the
public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of the same.


359
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
360
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word “filing”.
361
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.
362
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                      153
      PART V - PRICING


      Pricing
      188. (1) The issuer may determine the price of the IDRs in consultation with the lead manager(s) or
      through the book building process, as the case may be.
      (2) The issuer shall undertake the book building process in a manner specified in Schedule XIII.


      Price and price band
      189. (1) The issuer may mention a price or a price band in the offer document (in case of a fixed
      price issue) and a floor price or a price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built
      issue) and determine the price at a later date before 363[filing] the prospectus with the Registrar of
      Companies:
      Provided that the prospectus 364[filed] with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price
      or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be.
      (2) The cap on the price band shall be less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent of the
      floor price.
      (3) The floor price or the final price shall not be less than the face value of the IDRs.
365
      [(4) The issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least two working days before the
      opening of the issue in the pre-issue and price band advertisement in the format specified under Part
      A of Schedule X in the same newspapers in which the public announcement under sub-regulation (2)
      of Regulation 187 was published.]
      (5) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall contain relevant financial ratios
      computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention
      of the investors to the section titled “basis of issue price” of the offer document.
      (6) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) and the relevant financial ratios referred to
      in sub-regulation (5) shall be disclosed on the websites of the stock exchange(s) and shall also be
      pre-filled in the application forms to be made available on the websites of the stock exchange(s).

      363
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
      364
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registered”.
      365
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (4) read as under,-

              “(4) Where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the floor price or price band in the red herring
              prospectus, the issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least two working days before the
              opening of the issue in the same newspapers in which the pre-issue advertisement was released or together
              with the pre-issue advertisement in the format prescribed under Part A of Schedule X.”

                                                             154
Differential pricing
190. (1) The issuer may offer its IDRs at different prices, subject to the following:
a)    retail individual investors or employees entitled for reservation may be offered specified
      securities at a price not lower by more than ten per cent. of the price at which net offer is made
      to other categories of applicants, excluding anchor investors.
      Explanation: For the purpose of this Chapter, “employee” shall mean a person who:
      i)    is a resident of India, and
      ii)     is a permanent and full-time employee or a director, whether whole time or part time,
            of the issuer or of the holding company or subsidiary company or of the material
            associate(s) of the issuer, whose financial statements are consolidated with the issuer’s
            financial statements, working in India and does not include promoters and an immediate
            relative of the promoter.
b)    In case the issuer opts for the alternate method of book building in terms of Part D of
      Schedule XIII, the issuer may offer specified securities to its employees at a price not lower
      by more than ten per cent. of the floor price.
(2) Discount, if any, shall be expressed in rupee terms in the offer document.


PART VI: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE


Issuance conditions
191. (1) The procedure to be followed by each class of applicant shall be mentioned in the offer
document.
(2) The minimum application amount shall be twenty thousand rupees.


Allocation in the issue
192. (1) The allocation in the issue shall be as follows:
(a) at least fifty per cent. of the issue shall be allotted to qualified institutional buyers on
     proportionate basis as per illustration given in Part A of Schedule XIV;
(b) the remaining portion of the issue may be allocated among the categories of non-institutional
     investors and retail individual investors including employees, at the discretion of the issuer
     and the manner of allocation shall be disclosed in the offer document. Allotment to investors
     within a category shall be on proportionate basis:
     Provided that at least thirty per cent. of the IDRs being offered in the public issue shall be
     available for allocation to retail individual investors and in case of under-subscription in retail

                                                  155
      individual investor category, spill over to other categories to the extent of under subscription
      may be permitted.
(2) A person shall not make an application in the net offer category for a number of IDRs which
exceeds the total number of IDRs offered to the public.


Abridged prospectus
193. (1)The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified in Part B of Schedule
VIII and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(2) Every application form distributed by the issuer or any other person in relation to an issue
shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus.


ASBA
194. The issuer shall accept bids using only the ASBA facility in the manner specified by the
Board.


Availability of issue material
195. The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the offer document and other issue material
including application forms to stock exchanges, syndicate members, registrar to issue, registrar
and share transfer agents, depository participants, stock brokers, underwriters, bankers to the
issue, investors’ associations and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue.


Prohibition on payment of incentives
196. Any person connected with the issue shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect,
in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any person for making an
application in the initial public offer, except for fees or commission for services rendered in
relation to the issue.


366[***]




366
   Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. Prior to its omission, Regulation 197 read as follows-
       “Security deposit
       197. (1) The issuer shall, before the opening of subscription list, deposit with the designated stock exchange,
       an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the issue size available for subscription to the public in
       the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
       (2) The amount specified in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by
       the Board.

                                                        156
Underwriting
198. (1) If the issuer making an initial public offer of IDRs, other than through the book building
process, desires to have the issue underwritten, 367[it shall appoint merchant bankers or stock
brokers, registered with the Board, to act as underwriters].
(2) If the issuer makes a public issue through the book building process,
a)    The issue shall be underwritten by lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s):
b)    The issuer shall, prior to filing the prospectus, enter into underwriting agreement with the
      lead manager(s), and syndicate member(s), indicating therein the number of specified
      securities which they shall subscribe to at the predetermined price in the event of under-
      subscription in the issue.
c)    If the syndicate member(s) fail to fulfil their underwriting obligations, the lead manager(s)
      shall fulfil such underwriting obligations.
d)    The lead manager(s) and the syndicate member(s) shall not subscribe to the issue in any
      manner except for fulfilling their underwriting obligations.
e)    In case of every underwritten issue, the lead manager(s) shall undertake minimum
      underwriting obligations as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India
      (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.
f)    where the issue is required to be underwritten, the underwriting obligations should at least to
      the extent of minimum subscription.


Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports.
199. All public communication, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports shall
comply with the provisions of Schedule IX, subject to the following:
a)    the applicability of clauses (1) and (7) and Explanation II shall be restricted to any issue
      advertisements made in India or any research report circulated in India, pertaining to the
      IDR issue of the issuing company;
b)     the applicability of clauses (2) and (3) shall be restricted to any public communications and
      publicity material issued or published in any media in India;
c)    the applicability of clauses (4) and (5) shall be restricted to any material or information
      released in India and any issue advertisements and publicity materials issued or published in
      any media in India;


367
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words, numbers and symbols “it shall appoint underwriters
in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993”.

                                                     157
d)         the applicability of clause (10) shall be restricted to any product advertisement of the issuer
           issued or published in any media in India;
e)         all other provisions of Schedule IX shall be applicable.


Issue-related advertisements
200. (1)The issuer may release advertisements for issue opening and issue closing, which shall be
in the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule X 368[in the same newspapers in which the
public announcement under sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 187 was published].
(2) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving
an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed or indicating investors’
response to the issue.
(3) An announcement regarding closure of the issue shall be made only after the lead manager(s) is
satisfied that at least ninety per cent. of the issue has been subscribed and a certificate has been
obtained to that effect from the registrar to the issue:
Provided that such an announcement shall not be made before the date on which the issue is to be
closed except for issue closing advertisement made in the format prescribed in these regulations.


Opening of the issue
201. 369[(1) Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a public
issue shall be opened within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the
Board under regulation 6.]
370
      []
(2) 371[The] issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of 372[filing] the
prospectus with the Registrar of Companies.


Minimum subscription


368
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
369
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows:
    “(1)Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a public issue may be
    opened:”
370
    Clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 201 omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the omission, clause
a) read as follows:
       “a) within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board under regulation 6; or”
371
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “an”.
372
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.

                                                        158
202. (1) The minimum subscription to be received in the issue shall be at least ninety per cent. of
the offer through the offer document.
(2) For non-underwritten issues:
        a)      If the issuer does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. of the
                offer through offer document on the date of closure of the issue, or if the
                subscription level falls below ninety per cent. after the closure of issue, the issuer
                shall forthwith refund through verifiable means the entire subscription amount
                received.
        b)      If the issuer fails to refund the entire subscription amount within 373[four days]
                from the date of the closure of the issue, it is liable to pay the amount with interest
                to the subscribers at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum for the period of delay.
(3) For underwritten issues:
        (a)     If the issuer does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. of the
                offer through offer document including devolvement of underwriters, all
                application monies received shall be refunded through verifiable means to the
                applicants forthwith, but not later than 374[four days] from the closure of the issue.
        (b)     If the issuer fails to refund the entire subscription amount within 375[four days]
                from the date of the closure of the issue, it is liable to pay the amount with interest
                to the subscribers at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum for the period of delay.
(4) In case of an undersubscribed issue that is underwritten, the lead manager(s) shall furnish
information to the Board in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting
devolvement in the format specified in Schedule XVIII.


Period of subscription
203. (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, an initial public offer of IDRs shall be
kept open for at least three working days and not more than ten working days.
(2) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed
in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions
of sub-regulation (1).




373
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “fifteen days”.
374
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “fifteen days”.
375
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “fifteen days”.

                                                   159
(3) In case of force majeure, banking strike or similar 376[unforeseen] circumstances, the issuer may,
for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring
prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or the issue period disclosed in the prospectus (in case of a
fixed price issue), for a minimum period of 377[one working day], subject to the provisions of sub-
regulation (1).


Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
204. (1) The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered
through the offer document except in case of oversubscription for the purpose of rounding off to
make allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange.
Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than one per cent. of the net
offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots.
(2) The allotment of specified securities to applicants other than retail individual investors shall be
on proportionate basis within the respective investor categories and the number of securities
allotted shall be rounded off to the nearest integer, subject to minimum allotment being equal to
the minimum application size as determined and disclosed in the offer document:
Provided that value of specified securities allotted to retail individual investors shall not exceed
two lakhs rupees.
(3) The allotment of specified securities to each retail individual investor shall not be less than the
minimum bid lot, subject to availability of shares in retail individual investor category, and the
remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis.
(4) The authorised employees of the designated stock exchange, along with the lead manager(s)
and registrars to the issue, shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper
manner in accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in Part A of Schedule XIV.


Allotment, refund and payment of interest
205. (1) The issuer shall ensure that the letters of allotment for the IDRs are issued simultaneously
to all allottees and that in the event of it being impossible to issue letters of regret at the same
time, a notice to that effect shall be issued in the media so that it appears on the morning after the
letters of allotment have been despatched.




376
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
377
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024 for the words “three working days”

                                                   160
(2) The issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that the IDRs are allotted and/or application monies
are refunded or unblocked within such period as may be specified by the Board.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities,
refunding or unlocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(4) Where the specified securities are not allotted and/or application monies are not refunded or
unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay
interest at the rate of fifteen per cent per annum to the investors and within such time as disclosed
in the offer document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same.


Post-issue advertisements
206. (1) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that advertisement giving details relating to
subscription, basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of all applications including
ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA,
date of completion of despatch of refund orders, as applicable, or instructions to self-certified
syndicate banks by the registrar, date of credit of the IDRs and date of filing of listing application,
etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in at least one
English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with
wide circulation.
(2) Details specified in sub regulation (1) shall also be placed on the websites of the stock
exchanges where the securities are listed.


Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s)
207. (1) The responsibility of the lead manager(s) shall continue until completion of the issue
process and for any issue related matter thereafter.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any
issue related activities.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall continue to be responsible for post-issue activities till the applicants
have received the credit of IDRs to their account or refund of application monies and the listing
agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange and listing or trading permission is
obtained.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall be responsible for and co-ordinate with the registrars to the issue
and with various intermediaries at regular intervals after the closure of the issue to monitor the
flow of applications from syndicate member(s) or collecting bank branches and/ or self-certified
syndicate banks processing of the applications including application form for ASBA and other
matters till the basis of allotment is finalised, credit of the specified securities to the demat

                                                 161
  accounts of the allottees and unblocking of ASBA accounts/ despatch of refund orders are
  completed and securities are listed, as applicable.
  (5) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead
  manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board.
  (6)In case there is a devolvement on the underwriters, the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the
  notice for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within ten days
  from the date of closure of the issue.
  (7) In case of undersubscribed issues that are underwritten, the lead manager(s) shall furnish
  information to the Board in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting
  devolvement in the format specified in Schedule XVIII.


  Release of subscription money
  208. (1) The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing
  and trading approvals that all formalities in connection with the issue have been completed and
  that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of
  failure of the issue.
  (2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where
  the specified securities were listed, it shall refund through verifiable means the entire monies
  received within 378[four days] of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the
  application for listing of IDRs, if any such money is not repaid within 379[four days] after the
  issuer becomes liable to repay it the issuer and every director of the company who is an officer in
  default shall, on and from the expiry of the 380[fourth day], be jointly and severally liable to repay
  that money with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
   (3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the issue are released
  to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of the Section 40 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013,
  as applicable.


381[Reporting   of transactions by the promoters and promoter group and other pre-IPO
  transactions


  378
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “seven days”.
  379
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eight days”.
  380
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eighth day”.
  381
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 209 read as under:

                                                     162
209. (1) The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter
group during the period between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document,
as the case may be, and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s),
within twenty-four hours of such transactions.
(2) The issuer shall also ensure that any proposed pre-IPO placement disclosed in the draft offer
document shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty-four hours of such pre-IPO
transactions (in part or in entirety).]


Post-issue reports
210. The lead manager(s) shall submit a final post-issue report on the lines of Parts A of
Schedule XVII, along with a due diligence certificate as per the format specified in Form F of
Schedule V, within seven days of the date of finalisation of basis of allotment or within seven
days of refund of money in case of failure of issue.


Fungibility
211. The IDRs shall be fungible into the underlying equity shares of the issuer in the manner
specified by the Board and Reserve Bank of India, from time to time.


         CHAPTER VIII - RIGHTS ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS


Applicability
212. In addition to compliance with Chapter VII, wherever applicable, a listed issuer offering
IDRs through a rights issue shall satisfy the conditions specified in this Chapter at the time of
filing the offer document:
Provided that the provisions of the following regulations shall not be applicable in case of rights
issue of IDRs:
a)    regulation 191
b)    sub-regulation (1) of regulation 192
c)    clause (a) of sub regulation (2) of regulation 183
d)    regulation 205; and
e)    sub-regulation (2) of regulation 185.



        “Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group
        209. (1) The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter group
        between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the date of
        closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchanges within twenty four hours of such transactions.”

                                                       163
Entities not eligible to make a rights issue
213. An issuer shall not be eligible to make a rights issue of IDRs if –
(a) at the time of undertaking the rights issue, the issuer is in breach of ongoing material
obligations under the listing agreement and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as may be applicable to such issuer
or material obligations under the deposit agreement entered into between the domestic depository
and the issuer at the time of initial offering of IDRs;
(b) any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender.


General conditions
214. The issuer shall ensure that it has made an application to all the stock exchanges in India,
where its IDRs are already listed, for listing of the IDRs to be issued by way of rights and has
chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX.


Renunciation by an IDR holder
215. Unless the laws of the home jurisdiction of the issuer otherwise provide, the rights issue shall
be deemed to include a right exercisable by the person concerned to renounce the IDRs offered to
the IDR holder in favour of any other person subject to applicable laws and the same shall be
disclosed in the offer document.


Depository
216. The domestic depository shall, in accordance with the depository agreement executed with
the issuer at the time of initial offering of IDR, take such steps as are necessary to enable the IDR
holders to have entitlements under the rights offering and issue additional IDRs to such IDR
holders, distribute the rights to the IDR holders or renouncees or arrange for the IDR holders or
renouncees to subscribe for any additional rights which are available due to lack of take-up by
other holders of underlying shares.


Record date
217. (1) An issuer making a rights issue of IDRs shall, in accordance with the provisions of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015, the issuer shall announce a record date for the purpose of determining the
shareholders eligible to apply for IDRs in the proposed rights issue.



                                                  164
      (2) If the issuer withdraws the rights issue after announcing the record date, it shall notify the
      Board about the same and shall notify the same in one English national daily newspaper with wide
      circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language
      daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where principal office of the issuer is situated
      in India. If the issuer withdraws the rights issue after announcing the record date, it shall not make
      an application for offering of IDRs on a rights basis for a period of twelve months from the said
      record date.


      Disclosures in the offer document and the addendum
      218. (1) The offer document for the rights offering shall contain disclosures as required under the
      home country regulations of the issuer.
      (2) An additional wrap (addendum to offer document) shall be attached to the offer document to
      be circulated in India containing information as specified in Part C of Schedule VIII and other
      instructions as to the procedures and process to be followed with respect to rights issue of IDRs in
      India.
      (3) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulations (1) and (2), the offer document and the
      addendum attached with it, shall contain all material information, which are true, correct and
      adequate, so as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.


      Appointment of lead managers and compliance officer
      219. (1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with the
      Board, as a lead manager(s) to the issue             and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in
      consultation with the lead manager, to carry out the obligations relating to the issue.
382
      [(2)The issuer shall also appoint a person qualified to be a company secretary as the compliance
      officer who shall ensure compliance with the obligations under this Chapter, and shall function
      from within the territorial limits of India.]


      Filing of draft offer document and the addendum for rights offering
      220. (1) The issuer shall, through the lead manager(s), file the draft offer document prepared in
      accordance with the home country requirements along with an addendum containing disclosures



      382
         Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under,-

               “(2) The issuer shall ensure that the compliance officer, in charge of ensuring compliance with the
               obligations under this Chapter, functions from within the territorial limits of India.”

                                                          165
as specified in Part C of Schedule VIII with the Board, as a confidential filing accompanied with
fees as specified in Schedule III.
(2) The Board may specify changes or issue observations on the draft offer document and the
addendum within thirty days from the later of the following dates :
         (a) the date of receipt of the draft offer document prepared in accordance with the home
            country requirements along with an addendum under sub-regulation (2); or
         (b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead manager(s), where the Board has
            sought any clarification or additional information from them; or
         (c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where
            the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or
         (d) the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock
            exchanges.
(3) If the Board specifies any changes or issues observations on the draft offer document and the
addendum under sub-regulation (3), the issuer and the lead manager(s) shall file the revised draft
offer document and the updated addendum after incorporating the changes specified by the
Board.
(4) The issuer shall also submit an undertaking from the overseas custodian and domestic
depository addressed to the issuer, to comply with their obligations with respect to the said rights
issue under their respective agreements entered into between them, along with the offer document.


Pricing
221. The issue price and the ratio shall be decided simultaneously with record date in accordance
with the home country regulations.


Availability of Issue Material
222. (1) The abridged letter of offer, containing disclosures as specified in Part B of Schedule IX,
for a rights offering, along with application form, shall be dispatched through registered post or
speed post or by courier service or by electronic mode to all the eligible IDR holders at least three
days before the date of opening of the issue and shall be made available on the website of the
issuer with appropriate access restrictions at the same time it is made available to the holders of its
equity shares.
Provided that a hard copy of the offer document for a rights offering along with the addendum
shall be made available at the principal office of the issuer or lead manager to any existing IDR
holder who has made a request in this regard.



                                                 166
(2) The eligible IDR holders who have not received the application form may apply in writing on
a plain paper to the domestic depository, along with the requisite application money within the
time frame for acceptance.
(3) The eligible IDR holders making an application otherwise than on the application form shall
not renounce their rights and shall not utilise the application form for any purpose including
renunciation even if it is received subsequently.
(4) Where any eligible IDR holder makes an application on an application form as well as on
plain paper, such application is liable to be rejected.


Issue-related advertisement
223. (1) The issuer shall issue an advertisement for the rights issue disclosing the following:
a)   the date of completion of despatch of the abridged letter of offer and the application form;
b)   the centres other than principal office of the issuer in India where the eligible IDR holders
     may obtain duplicate copies of the application forms in case they do not receive the
     application form within a reasonable time after opening of the rights issue;
c)   a statement that if the eligible IDR holders have neither received the original application
     forms nor they are in a position to obtain the duplicate forms, they may make application in
     writing on a plain paper to subscribe to the rights issue;
d)   a format to enable the eligible IDR holders, to make the application on a plain paper
     specifying therein necessary particulars such as name, address, ratio of rights issue, issue
     price, number of IDRs held, ledger folio numbers, depository participant ID, client ID,
     number of IDRs entitled and applied for, amount to be paid along with application, and
     particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of the issuer’s account;
e)   a statement that the applications can be directly sent by the eligible IDR holders through
     registered post together with the application monies to the issuer's designated official at the
     address given in the advertisement;
f)   a statement to the effect that if the eligible IDR holder makes an application on plain paper
     and also on application form both the applications shall be liable to be rejected at the option
     of the issuer.
(2) The advertisement shall be made in at least one English national daily newspaper with wide
circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language
daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where principal office of the issuer is situated
in India at least three days before the date of opening of the issue.


Period of subscription and issue of allotment letter

                                                  167
224. (1) A rights issue shall be open for subscription in India for a period as applicable under the
laws of its home country but in no case less than ten days.
(2) The issuing company shall ensure that it sends the allotment letter of rights to IDR holders at
the time these are sent to shareholders of the issuing company as per the requirement of its home
country or other jurisdictions where its securities are listed.


Utilisation of funds
225. The issuer shall utilise funds raised in relation to the IDRs pursuant to the rights offering
only upon completion of the allotment process.


Fast track issue
226. (1) Nothing contained in sub-regulations (1) of regulation 221, (1), (2) and (3) of regulation
222 shall apply, if the issuer satisfies the following conditions:
a)   the issuer is in compliance in all material respects with the provisions of deposit agreement
     and the provisions of listing agreements (or listing conditions) applicable in all the
     jurisdictions wherever the issuer is listed, for a period of at least three years immediately
     preceding the date of filing of the offer document, and a certification to this effect is
     provided by the issuer;
b)   the offer document for the rights offering of the securities of the issuer has been filed and
     reviewed by the securities regulator in the home country of the issuer;
c)   there are no pending show-cause notices or prosecution proceedings against the issuer or its
     promoters, where applicable, or whole time directors on the reference date by the Board or
     the regulatory authorities in its home country restricting them from accessing the capital
     markets; and
d)   the issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the IDR
     holders before the end of the three months period immediately preceding the month of date
     of filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange.
(2) Where the conditions in sub-regulation (1) are satisfied, the issuer may opt for rights issue of
IDRs by filing a copy of the offer document prepared in accordance with the home country
requirements along with an addendum containing disclosures as specified in Part C of Schedule
VIII with the Board for record purposes, before filing the same with the stock exchanges.


 CHAPTER IX - INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER BY SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES


Reference date

                                                  168
  227. Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an issuer making an initial public offer of
  specified securities shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing of the draft
  offer document with the SME exchange and also as on the date of 383[filing] the offer document
  with the Registrar of Companies.


  PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS


  Entities not eligible to make an initial public offer
  228. An issuer shall not be eligible to make an initial public offer:
  (a) if the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors or selling shareholders are
          debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board;
  (b) if any of the promoters or directors of the issuer is a promoter or director of any other
          company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board;
  (c) if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a 384[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
          borrower].
  (d) if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender 385[;]
386
      [(e) if there are any outstanding convertible securities or any other right which would entitle any
          person with any option to receive equity shares of the issuer:
            Provided that the provisions of this clause shall not apply to:
                    (i) outstanding options granted to employees, whether currently an employee or
                    not, pursuant to an employee stock option scheme in compliance with the
                    Companies Act, 2013, the relevant Guidance Note or accounting standards, if any,
                    issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or pursuant to the
                    Companies Act, 2013, in this regard;
                    (ii) fully paid-up outstanding convertible securities which are required to be
                    converted on or before the date of filing of the red herring prospectus (in case of
                    book-built issues) or the prospectus (in case of fixed price issues), as the case may
                    be.]




  383
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
  384
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
  385
      Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “.”.
  386
      Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
  (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                     169
       Explanation: The restrictions under clauses (a) and (b) shall not apply to the persons or
       entities mentioned therein, who were debarred in the past by the Board and the period of
       debarment is already over as on the date of filing of the draft offer document with the SME
       Exchange.


Eligibility requirements for an initial public offer
229. (1) An issuer shall be eligible to make an initial public offer only if its post-issue paid-up
capital is less than or equal to ten crore rupees.
(2) An issuer, whose post issue 387[paid-up] capital is more than ten crore rupees and upto twenty
five crore rupees, may also issue specified securities in accordance with provisions of this
Chapter.
(3) An issuer may make an initial public offer, if it satisfies track record and/or other eligibility
conditions of the SME Exchange(s) on which the specified securities are proposed to be listed.
Provided that In case of an issuer which had been a partnership firm or a limited liability
partnership, the track record of operating profit of the partnership firm or the limited liability
partnership shall be considered only if the financial statements of the partnership business for the
period during which the issuer was a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership, conform to
and are revised in the format prescribed for companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and also
comply with the following:
      a) adequate disclosures are made in the financial statements as required to be made by the
         issuer as per Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013;
      b) the financial statements are duly certified by auditors, who have subjected themselves to
         the peer review process of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and hold
         a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board‘ of the ICAI, stating that: (i) the
         accounts and the disclosures made are in accordance with the provisions of Schedule III of
         the Companies Act, 2013; (ii) the accounting standards prescribed under the Companies
         Act, 2013 have been followed; (iii) the financial statements present a true and fair view of
         the firm‘s accounts;
Provided further that in case of an issuer formed out of merger or a division of an existing
company, the track record of the resulting issuer shall be considered only if the requirements
regarding financial statements as specified above in the first proviso are complied with.




387
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “face value”.

                                                     170
388
      [(4) In case of an issuer, which had been a proprietorship or a partnership firm or a limited liability
       partnership before conversion to a company or body corporate, such issuer may make an initial
       public offer only if the issuer company has been in existence for at least one full financial year
       before filing of draft offer document:
       Provided that the restated financial statements of the issuer company prepared post conversion
       shall be in accordance with Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013.
       (5) In cases where there is a complete change of promoter of the issuer or there are new
       promoter(s) of the issuer who have acquired more than fifty per cent of the shareholding of the
       issuer, the issuer shall file draft offer document only after a period of one year from the date of
       such final change(s).
       (6) An issuer may make an initial public offer, only if the issuer had minimum operating profits
       (earnings before interest, depreciation and tax) of ₹1 crore from operations for at least two out of
       the three previous financial years.]


       General conditions
       230. (1) An issuer making an initial public offer shall ensure that:
       (a) it has made an application to one or more SME exchanges for listing of its specified securities
             on such SME exchange(s) and has chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange, in
             terms of Schedule XIX:
       (b) it has entered into an agreement with a depository for dematerialisation of its specified
             securities already issued and proposed to be issued;
       (c) all its existing partly paid-up equity shares have either been fully paid-up or forfeited;
       (d) all specified securities held by the promoters are in the dematerialised form;
       (e) it has made firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards seventy five per
             cent. of the stated means of finance for the project proposed to be funded from the issue
             proceeds, excluding the amount to be raised through the proposed public offer or through
             existing identifiable internal accruals389[:]
               390
                     [Provided that if there is a requirement of firm arrangement and the project is partially
             funded by the bank(s) / financial institution(s), the details regarding sanction letter(s) from




       388
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
       389
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “.”.
       390
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                             171
              the bank(s)/ financial institution(s) shall be disclosed in the draft offer document and offer
              document.]
              Explanation: “project” means the object for which monies are proposed to be raised to
              cover the objects of the issue
391
      [(f) the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders shall not exceed twenty per cent of the total
              issue size;
      (g)      the shares being offered for sale by selling shareholders shall not exceed fifty per cent of
              such selling shareholders’ pre-issue shareholding on a fully diluted basis;
      (h)      its objects of the issue should not consist of repayment of loan taken from promoter,
              promoter group or any related party, from the issue proceeds, directly or indirectly.]


      (2) The amount for general corporate purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft
                offer document and the offer document shall not exceed 392[fifteen] per cent. of the amount
                being raised by the issuer 393[or ₹10 crores, whichever is less].

      394
            [(3) The amount for:

                     (i) general corporate purposes, and
                     (ii) such objects where the issuer company has not identified acquisition or investment
                            target, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer document and the
                            offer document,

      shall not exceed thirty five per cent. of the amount being raised by the issuer:

      Provided that the amount raised for such objects where the issuer company has not identified
      acquisition or investment target, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer document
      and the offer document, shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount being raised by the
      issuer:

      Provided further that such limits shall not apply if the proposed acquisition or strategic investment
      object has been identified and suitable specific disclosures about such acquisitions or



      391
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
      392
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “twenty five”.
      393
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
      394
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                           172
investments are made in the draft offer document and the offer document at the time of filing of
offer documents.]


PART II: ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND WARRANTS
231. An issuer shall be eligible to make an initial public offer of convertible debt instruments
even without making a prior public issue of its equity shares and listing thereof.
Provided that an issuer shall not be eligible if it is in default of payment of interest or repayment
of principal amount in respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of
more than six months.


Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments
232. (1) In addition to other requirements laid down in these regulations, an issuer making an
initial public offer of convertible debt instruments shall also comply with the following
conditions:
a)   it has obtained credit rating from at least one credit rating agency;
b)   it has appointed at least one debenture trustees in accordance with the provisions of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees)
     Regulations, 1993;
c)   it shall create a debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder;
d)   if the issuer proposes to create a charge or security on its assets in respect of secured
     convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that:
       i)     such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times;
       ii)    such assets are free from any encumbrance;
       iii)   where security is already created on such assets in favour of any existing lender or
              security trustee or the issue of convertible debt instruments is proposed to be secured
              by creation of security on a leasehold land, the consent of such lender or security
              trustee or lessor for a second or pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted to
              the debenture trustee before the opening of the issue;
       iv)    the security or asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a
              first or prior charge, in case the convertible debt instruments are secured by a second
              or subsequent charge.
(2) The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments as stipulated in the offer document.


Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity share capital

                                                  173
233. (1) The issuer shall not convert its optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares
unless the holders of such convertible debt instruments have sent their positive consent to the
issuer and non-receipt of reply to any notice sent by the issuer for this purpose shall not be
construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.
(2) Where the value of the convertible portion of any listed convertible debt instruments issued by
a issuer exceeds fifty lakh rupees and the issuer has not determined the conversion price of such
convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible debt
instruments shall be given the option of not converting the convertible portion into equity shares:
Provided that where the upper limit on the price of such convertible debt instruments and
justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of making the issue, it
shall not be necessary to give such option to the holders of the convertible debt instruments for
converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said upper limit.
(3) Where an option is to be given to the holders of the convertible debt instruments in terms of
sub-regulation (2) and if one or more of such holders do not exercise the option to convert the
instruments into equity share capital at a price determined in the general meeting of the
shareholders, the issuer shall redeem that part of the instruments within one month from the last
date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value.
(4) The provision of sub-regulation (3) shall not apply if such redemption is in terms of the
disclosures made in the offer document.


Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing
234. An issuer shall not issue convertible debt instruments for financing or for providing loans to
or for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the promoter group or group companies;
Provided that an issuer shall be eligible to issue fully convertible debt instruments for these
purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments is less than eighteen months from
the date of issue of such debt instruments.


Issue of warrants
235. An issuer shall be eligible to issue warrants in an initial public offer subject to the following:
a)   the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed eighteen months from their date of allotment in
     the initial public offer;
b)   A specified security may have one or more warrants attached to it;
c)   the price or formula for determination of exercise price of the warrants shall be determined
     upfront and disclosed in the offer document and at least twenty-five per cent. of the
     consideration amount based on the exercise price shall also be received upfront;

                                                  174
      Provided that in case the exercise price of warrants is based on a formula, twenty-five per
      cent. consideration amount based on the cap price of the price band determined for the linked
      equity shares or convertible securities shall be received upfront.;
d)    in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of
      the warrants held by the warrant holder, within three months from the date of payment of
      consideration, such consideration made in respect of such warrants shall be forfeited by the
      issuer.


PART III: PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION


Minimum promoters’ contribution
236. (1) The promoters of the issuer shall hold at least twenty per cent. of the post-issue capital:
Provided that in case the post-issue shareholding of the promoters is less than twenty per cent.,
alternative investment funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks
or public financial institutions or insurance companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority of India 395[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five
per cent. of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual or non-individual) forming part of
promoter group other than the promoter(s)] may contribute to meet the shortfall in minimum
contribution as specified for the promoters, subject to a maximum of ten per cent. of the post-issue
capital without being identified as promoter(s);
Provided further that the requirement of minimum promoters’ contribution shall not apply in case
an issuer does not have any identifiable promoter.
(2) The minimum promoters’ contribution shall be as follows:
a)    the promoters shall contribute twenty per cent. as stipulated sub-regulation (1), as the case
      may be, either by way of equity shares or by way of subscription to the convertible
      securities:
      Provided that if the price of the equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion is not pre-
      determined and not disclosed in the offer document, the promoters shall contribute only by
      way of subscription to the convertible securities being issued in the public offer and shall
      undertake in writing to subscribe to the equity shares pursuant to conversion of such
      securities.
b)    in case of any issue of convertible securities which are convertible or exchangeable on
      different dates and if the promoters’ contribution is by way of equity shares (conversion

395
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.

                                                   175
      price being pre-determined), such contribution shall not be at a price lower than the weighted
      average price of the equity share capital arising out of conversion of such securities.
c)    subject to the provisions of clause (a) and (b) above, in case of an initial public offer of
      convertible debt instruments without a prior public issue of equity shares, the promoters shall
      bring in a contribution of at least twenty per cent. of the project cost in the form of equity
      shares, subject to contributing at least twenty per cent. of the issue size from its own funds in
      the form of equity shares:
      Provided that if the project is to be implemented in stages, the promoters’ contribution shall
      be with respect to total equity participation till the respective stage vis-à-vis the debt raised
      or proposed to be raised through the public offer.
d)    The promoters shall satisfy the requirements of this regulation at least one day prior to the
      date of opening of the issue.
e)    In case the promoters have to subscribe to equity shares or convertible securities towards
      minimum promoters’ contribution, the amount of promoters’ contribution shall be kept in an
      escrow account with a scheduled commercial bank, which shall be released to the issuer
      along with the release of the issue proceeds:
      Provided that where the promoters’ contribution has already been brought in and utilised, the
      issuer shall give the cash flow statement disclosing the use of such funds in the offer
      document;
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation:
(I)   Promoters’ contribution shall be computed on the basis of the post-issue expanded capital:
      (a) assuming full proposed conversion of convertible securities into equity shares;
      (b) assuming exercise of all vested options, where any employee stock options 396[or stock
      appreciation rights] are outstanding at the time of initial public offer.
(II) For computation of “weighted average price”:
      (a) “weights” means the number of equity shares arising out of conversion of such specified
      securities into equity shares at various stages;
      (b) “price” means the price of equity shares on conversion arrived at after taking into account
      predetermined conversion price at various stages.


Securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution
237. (1) For the computation of minimum promoters’ contribution, the following specified
securities shall not be eligible:

396
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                  176
a)    specified securities acquired during the preceding three years, if they are:
      (i)    acquired for consideration other than cash and revaluation of assets or capitalisation of
             intangible assets is involved in such transaction; or
      (ii)   resulting from a bonus issue by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealised profits
             of the issuer or from bonus issue against equity shares which are ineligible for
             minimum promoters’ contribution;
b)    specified securities acquired by the promoters and alternative investment funds or foreign
      venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or
      insurance companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of
      India 397[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five per cent. of the post-
      issue capital or any entity (individual or non-individual) forming part of promoter group
      other than the promoter(s)], during the preceding one year at a price lower than the price at
      which specified securities are being offered to the public in the initial public offer:
      Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply:
             398
      (i)          [if the promoters and alternative investment funds or foreign venture capital
             investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or insurance
             companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India]
             399
                   [or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five per cent. of the post-
             issue capital or any entity (individual or non-individual) forming part of promoter
             group other than the promoter(s)], as applicable, pay to the issuer the difference
             between the price at which the specified securities are offered in the initial public offer
             and the price at which the specified securities had been acquired;
      (ii) if such specified securities are acquired in terms of the scheme under 400[***] sections
             230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013, as approved by a High Court or a tribunal, as
             applicable, by the promoters in lieu of business and invested capital that had been in
             existence for a period of more than one year prior to such approval;
      (iii) to an initial public offer by a government company, statutory authority or corporation or
             any special purpose vehicle set up by any of them, which is engaged in the
             infrastructure sector;

397
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
398
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “if the promoters and alternative investment funds”.
399
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
400
    The numbers, words and symbols “391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or” omitted by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
14.1.2022.

                                                      177
            401
                  [(iv) to equity shares arising from the conversion or exchange of fully paid-up
                    compulsorily convertible securities, including depository receipts, that have been held
                    by the promoters and alternative investment funds or foreign venture capital investors
                    or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or insurance companies
                    registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India or any non-
                    individual public shareholder holding at least five per cent. of the post-issue capital or
                    any entity (individual or non-individual) forming part of promoter group other than
                    the promoter(s), as applicable, for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of the
                    draft offer document and such fully paid-up compulsorily convertible securities are
                    converted or exchanged into equity shares prior to the filing of the offer document
                    (i.e., red herring prospectus in case of a book built issue and prospectus in case of a
                    fixed price issue), provided that full disclosures of the terms of conversion or
                    exchange are made in such draft offer document402[:]]
      403
            [Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-regulation, it is clarified that the price per share
            for determining securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution, shall be
            determined after adjusting the same for corporate actions such as share split, bonus issue,
            etc. undertaken by the issuer;]
c)          specified securities allotted to the promoters and alternative investment funds during the
            preceding one year at a price less than the issue price, against funds brought in by them
            during that period, in case of an issuer formed by conversion of one or more partnership
            firms or limited liability partnerships, where the partners of the erstwhile partnership firms
            or limited liability partnerships are the promoters of the issuer and there is no change in the
            management:
            Provided that specified securities, allotted to the promoters against the capital existing in
            such firms for a period of more than one year on a continuous basis, shall be eligible;
d)          specified securities pledged with any creditor.
(2) Specified securities referred to in clauses (a) and (c) of sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible for
the computation of promoters’ contribution, if such securities are acquired pursuant to a scheme
which has been approved under the Companies Act, 2013 or any previous company law.




401
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
402
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “;”.
403
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                         178
PART IV: LOCK-IN AND RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERRABILITY
Lock-in of specified securities held by the promoters
238. The specified securities held by the promoters shall not be transferable (hereinafter referred
to as ‘lock-in’) for the periods as stipulated hereunder:
  a) minimum promoters’ contribution including contribution made by alternative investment
            funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial
            institutions or insurance companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development
            Authority of India 404[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five per cent.
            of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual or non-individual) forming part of
            promoter group other than the promoter(s)], as applicable, shall be locked-in for a period of
            three years from the date of commencement of commercial production or date of allotment
            in the initial public offer, whichever is later;
b)          promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’ contribution shall be locked-in 405[as
            follows:]
      406
            [(i) fifty percent. of promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’ contribution shall
               be locked in for a period of two years from the date of allotment in the initial public
               offer; and
            (ii) remaining fifty percent. of promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’
               contribution shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of allotment in the
               initial public offer.]
Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, the expression "date of commencement of
commercial production" means the last date of the month in which commercial production of the
project in respect of which the funds raised are proposed to be utilised as stated in the offer
document, is expected to commence.


Lock-in of specified securities held by persons other than the promoters
239. The entire pre-issue capital held by persons other than the promoters shall be locked-in for a
period of one year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer:
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to:



404
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
405
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “for a period of one year from the date of allotment in
the initial public offer”.
406
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                         179
a)      equity shares allotted to employees, whether currently an employee or not, under an
        employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme 407[or a stock appreciation right
        scheme] of the issuer prior to the initial public offer, if the issuer has made full disclosures
        with respect to such options or scheme in accordance with Part A of Schedule VI;
b)      equity shares held by an employee stock option trust or transferred to the employees by an
        employee stock option trust pursuant to exercise of options by the employees, whether
        currently employees or not, in accordance with the employee stock option plan or employee
        stock purchase scheme 408[or a stock appreciation right scheme].
        Provided that the equity shares allotted to the employees shall be subject to the provisions of
        lock-in as specified under the 409[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based
        Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021].
c)      equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of category I or
        Category II or a foreign venture capital investor:
        Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year from the
        date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund or foreign venture
        capital investor.
        410[Explanation I]: For the purpose of clause (c), in case such equity shares have resulted


        pursuant to conversion of fully paid-up compulsorily convertible securities, the holding
        period of such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together shall
        be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period and convertible securities
        shall be deemed to be fully paid-up, if the entire consideration payable thereon has been paid
        and no further consideration is payable at the time of their conversion.
      411
            [Explanation II: For the purpose of clauses (a) and (b), equity shares shall include any
            equity shares allotted pursuant to a bonus issue against equity shares allotted pursuant to an
            employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme or a stock appreciation right
            scheme.]


Lock-in of specified securities lent to stabilising agent under the green shoe option

407
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
408
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
409
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023 for the words and symbols “Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014”.
410
    Renamed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word “Explanation”.
411
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                      180
240. The lock-in provisions shall not apply with respect to the specified securities lent to
stabilising agent for the purpose of green shoe option, during the period starting from the date of
lending of such specified securities and ending on the date on which they are returned to the
lender in terms of sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 279:
Provided that the specified securities shall be locked-in for the remaining period from the date on
which they are returned to the lender.


Inscription or recording of non-transferability
241. The certificates of specified securities which are subject to lock-in shall contain the
inscription “non- transferable” and specify the lock-in period and in case such specified securities
are dematerialised, the issuer shall ensure that the lock-in is recorded by the depository.


Pledge of locked-in specified securities
242. Specified securities held by the promoters and locked-in may be pledged as a collateral
security for a loan granted by a scheduled commercial bank or a public financial institution or a
systemically important non-banking finance company or a housing finance company, subject to
the following:
a) if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (a) of regulation 238, the loan has
   been granted to the issuer company or its subsidiary(ies) for the purpose of financing one or
   more of the objects of the issue and pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of
   sanction of the loan;
b) if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (b) of regulation 238 and the pledge
   of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan.
   Provided that such lock-in shall continue pursuant to the invocation of the pledge and such
   transferee shall not be eligible to transfer the specified securities till the lock-in period
   stipulated in these regulations has expired.


Transferability of locked-in specified securities
243. Subject to the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition
of shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, the specified securities held by the promoters and
locked-in as per regulation 238 may be transferred to another promoter or any person of the
promoter group or a new promoter or a person in control of the issuer and the specified securities
held by persons other than the promoters and locked-in as per regulation 239 may be transferred
to any other person (including promoter or promoter group) holding the specified securities which
are locked-in along with the securities proposed to be transferred:

                                                  181
Provided that the lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with
the transferee and such transferee shall not be eligible to transfer them till the lock-in period
stipulated in these regulations has expired.


PART V: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER INTERMEDIARIES AND
COMPLIANCE OFFICER


244. (1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with the
Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2) Where the issue is managed by more than one lead manager, the rights, obligations and
responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations,
if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and disclosed in the draft offer document and
the offer document as specified in Schedule I.
(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of
the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer
and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.
(4) The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other intermediaries which
are registered with the Board after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed the capability
of other intermediaries to carry out their obligations.
(5) The issuer shall enter into an agreement with the lead manager(s) in the format specified in
Schedule II and enter into agreements with other intermediaries as required under the respective
regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned:
Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the intermediary
may deem fit without diminishing or limiting in any way the liabilities and obligations of the lead
manager(s), other intermediaries and the issuer under the Act, the Companies Act, 2013 412[***],
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules and
regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof:
Provided further that in case of ASBA process, the issuer shall take cognisance of the deemed
agreement of the issuer with self certified syndicate banks.




412
   The words, numbers and symbol “or the Companies Act, 1956 (to the extent applicable)” omitted by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
14.1.2022.

                                                      182
      (6) The issuer shall, in case of an issue made through the book building process, appoint syndicate
      member(s) and in the case of any other issue, appoint bankers to issue, at centres specified in
      Schedule XII.
      (7) The issuer shall appoint a registrar to the issue, registered with the Board, which has
      connectivity with all the depositories:
      Provided that if issuer itself is a registrar, it shall not appoint itself as registrar to the issue;
      Provided further that the lead manager shall not act as a registrar to the issue in which it is also
      handling the post-issue responsibilities.
      (8) The issuer shall appoint a 413[person qualified to be a company secretary as the] compliance
      officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the securities laws and for
      redressal of investors’ grievances.


      PART VI: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS


      Disclosures in the draft offer document and offer document
      245. (1) The offer document shall contain all material disclosures which are true and adequate so
      as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
      (2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall contain:
      a)    disclosures specified in the Companies Act, 2013; 414[*]
      b)    disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule VI 415[;]
416
      [c)   disclosures pertaining to details of Employees' Provident Fund and Employees State
            Insurance Corporation; such as number of employees registered, amount paid, etc.;
  (d)       site visit report of issuer prepared by the lead manager(s) shall be made available as a
            material document for inspection; and
  (e)       fees of lead manager(s) in any form/ name /purpose.]
      (3) The lead manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves about all aspects of
      the issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosure in the draft offer document and the
      offer document.




      413
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
      414
          The word “and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
      Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
      415
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “.”.
      416
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                          183
      (4) The lead manager(s) shall call upon the issuer, its promoters and its directors or in case of an
      offer for sale, also the selling shareholders, to fulfil their obligations as disclosed by them in the
      draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and as required in terms of these
      regulations.
      (5) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the information contained in the offer document and the
      particulars as per audited financial statements in the offer document are not more than six months old
      from the issue opening date.


      Filing of the offer document
      246. (1) The issuer shall file a copy of the offer document with the Board through the lead
      manager(s), immediately upon 417[filing] of the offer document with the Registrar of Companies:
      (2) The Board shall not issue any observation on the offer document.
418
      [(3) The lead manager(s) shall submit a due-diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule
      V to which the site visit report of the issuer prepared by the lead manager(s) shall also be
      annexed, including additional confirmations as provided in Form G of Schedule V along
      with the draft offer document to the SME Exchange(s), where the specified securities are
      proposed to be listed.]
      (4) The offer document shall be displayed from the date of filing in terms of sub-regulation (1) on
      the websites of 419[the issuer,] the Board, the lead manager(s) and the SME exchange(s).
      (5) The 420[***] offer documents shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft copy.


421[Draft Offer document and] Offer document to be made available to public


      247. 422[(1) The draft offer document filed with the SME exchange shall be made public for
      comments, if any, for a period of at least twenty one days from the date of filing, by hosting it on



      417
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registration”.
      418
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as under,-

                “The lead manager(s) shall submit a due-diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V including
                additional confirmations as provided in Form G of Schedule V along with the offer document to the
                Board.”
      419
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
      Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.
      420
          The words “draft offer document and the” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
      and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
      421
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
      422
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                             184
      the websites of the issuer, SME exchange where specified securities are proposed to be listed and
      lead manager associated with the issue.
      (2) The issuer shall, within two working days of filing the draft offer document with the SME
      Exchange, make a public announcement in one English national daily newspaper with wide
      circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language
      newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated,
      disclosing the fact of filing of the draft offer document with the SME exchange and inviting the
      public to provide their comments to the SME exchange, the issuer or the lead manager(s) in
      respect of the disclosures made in the draft offer document.
      (3) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with
      the SME exchange, details of the comments received by them or the issuer from the public, on the
      draft offer document, during that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to
      be made in the draft offer document.]
423
      [(4)] The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the offer documents are hosted on the
      websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed
      with the Registrar of Companies, Board and the SME exchange(s).
424
      [(5)] The lead manager(s) and the SME exchange(s) shall provide copies of the offer document to
      the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of the
      same.


      PART VII - PRICING


      Face value of equity shares
      248. The disclosure about the face value of equity shares shall be made in the draft offer
      document, offer document, advertisements and application forms, along with the price band or the
      issue price in identical font size.


      Pricing
      249. (1) The issuer may determine the price of equity shares, and in case of convertible securities, the
      coupon rate and the conversion price, in consultation with the lead manager(s) or through the book
      building process, as the case may be.



      423
          Renumbered by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.08.03.2025. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(1)”.
      424
          Renumbered by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.08.03.2025. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(2)”.

                                                             185
      (2) The issuer shall undertake the book building process in the manner specified in Schedule
      XIII.


      Price and price band
      250. (1) The issuer may mention a price or a price band in the offer document (in case of a fixed
      price issue) and a floor price or a price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built
      issue) and determine the price at a later date before 425[filing] the prospectus with the Registrar of
      Companies:
      Provided that the prospectus 426[filed] with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price
      or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be.
      (2) The cap on the price band, and the coupon rate in case of convertible debt instruments shall be
      less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent. of the floor price.
      (3) The floor price or the final price shall not be less than the face value of the specified securities.
427
      [(4) The issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least two working days before the
      opening of the issue in the pre-issue and price band advertisement in the format specified under Part
      A of Schedule X in one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, Hindi national daily
      newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language newspaper with wide circulation at the
      place where the registered office of the issuer is situated.]
      (5) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall contain relevant financial ratios
      computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention
      of the investors to the section titled “basis of issue price” of the offer document.
      (6) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) and the relevant financial ratios referred to
      in sub-regulation (5) shall be disclosed on the websites of the SME exchange(s) and shall also be
      pre-filled in the application forms to be made available on the websites of the SME exchange(s).


      Differential pricing
      251. (1) The issuer may offer its specified securities at different prices, subject to the following:


      425
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.
      426
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registered”.
      427
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (4) read as under,-

              “(4) Where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the floor price or price band in the red herring
              prospectus, the issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least two working days before the
              opening of the issue in the newspapers in which the pre-issue advertisement was released or together with
              the pre-issue advertisement in the format prescribed under Part A of Schedule X.”



                                                             186
a) 428[individual investors who applies for minimum application size] or retail individual
        shareholders[or employees entitled for reservation made under regulation 254 may be offered
        specified securities at a price not lower than by more than ten per cent. of the price at which net
        offer is made to other categories of applicants, excluding anchor investors.
b)      the differential pricing and the price at which net offer is proposed to be made to other
        categories of applicants shall be within the range such that the minimum application lot size
        shall remain uniform for all the applicants.
c)      in case of a book built issue, the price of the specified securities offered to the anchor investors
        shall not be lower than the price offered to other applicants.
(2) Discount, if any, shall be expressed in rupee terms in the offer document.


PART VIII: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE


Minimum offer to public
252. The minimum offer to the public shall be as per the provisions of clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of
rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957.


Allocation in the net offer
253. 429[(1)]The allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows:
a) not less than thirty five per cent. to 430[*] individual investors 431[who applies for minimum
      application size];
b) not less than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors;
c) not more than fifty per cent. to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be
      allocated to mutual funds:
      Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b)
      may be allocated to applicants in any other category:
      Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c),
      mutual funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional
      buyers.


428
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “retail individual investors”.
429
    Re-numbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018.
430
    The word “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
431
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                    187
        432[***]

  433
        [(2) In an issue made through book building process, the allocation in the non-institutional
        investors’ category shall be as follows:
                (a) one third of the portion available to non-institutional investors shall be reserved for
                applicants with application size of more than two lots and up to such lots equivalent to not
                more than ₹10 lakhs;
                (b) two third of the portion available to non-institutional investors shall be reserved for
                applicants with application size of more than ₹10 lakhs:
                         Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the sub-categories specified in
                clauses (a) or (b), may be allocated to applicants in the other sub-category of non-
                institutional investors.]

    435
434[    [(3)] In    an issue made other than through the book building process, the allocation in the
        net offer category shall be made as follows:


              (a)    minimum fifty per cent. to 436[*] individual investors 437[who applies for minimum
              application size]; and


              (b) remaining to:
                    (i) individual applicants 438[who applies for minimum application size]; and


                    (ii) other investors including corporate bodies or institutions,             irrespective of the
                    number of specified securities applied for;




        432
            Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
        (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018. Prior to its omission,-
              “Explanation: If the retail individual investor category is entitled to more than the allocated portion on
              proportionate basis, the retail individual investors shall be allocated that higher percentage.”
        433
            Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
        (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
        434
            Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
        (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018.
        435
            Renumbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
        (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.08.03.2025. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(2)”.
        436
            The word “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
        Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
        437
            Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
        (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
        438
            Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
        (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “other than retail individual investors”.

                                                             188
      Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b)
      may be allocated to applicants in the other category.


      Explanation. - For the purpose of sub-regulation 439[(3)], if the 440[*] 441[category of individual
      investors who applies for minimum application size] is entitled to more than fifty per cent. of
      the issue size on a proportionate basis, 442[such] 443[*] individual investors shall be allocated
      that higher percentage.]


Reservation on a competitive basis
254. (1) The issuer may make reservations on a competitive basis out of the issue size excluding
promoters’ contribution in favour of the following categories of persons:
a)    employees;
b)    shareholders (other than promoters and promoter group) of              listed subsidiaries or listed
      promoter companies
      Provided that the issuer shall not make any reservation for the lead manager(s), registrar,
      syndicate member(s), their promoters, directors and employees and for the group or associate
      companies (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013) of the lead manager(s), registrar, and
      syndicate member(s) and their promoters, directors and employees.
(2) The reservations on a competitive basis shall be subject to following conditions:
a)    the aggregate of reservations for employees shall not exceed five per cent. of the post-issue
      capital of the issuer and the value of allotment to any employee shall not exceed two lakhs
      rupees:
      Provided that in the event of under-subscription in the employee reservation portion, the
      unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of two
      lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs rupees.
b)    reservation for shareholders shall not exceed ten per cent. of the issue size;




439
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word and numeral “(2)”.
440
    The word “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
441
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “individual investor category”.
442
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word “the”.
443
    The word “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                   189
c)    no further application for subscription in the net offer can be made by persons (except an
      employee and retail individual shareholder) in favour of whom reservation on a competitive
      basis is made;
d)    any unsubscribed portion in any reserved category may be added to any other reserved
      category(ies) and the unsubscribed portion, if any, after such inter-se adjustments among the
      reserved categories shall be added to the net offer category;
e)    in case of under-subscription in the net offer category, spill-over to the extent of under-
      subscription shall be permitted from the reserved category to the net public offer.
(3) An applicant in any reserved category may make an application for any number of specified
securities but not exceeding the reserved portion for that category.


Abridged prospectus
255. (1) The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified in 444[Part E of
Schedule VI ] and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(2) Every application form distributed by the issuer or any other person in relation to an issue
shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus.


ASBA
256. The issuer shall accept bids using only the ASBA facility in the manner specified by the
Board.


Availability of issue material
257. The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the offer document and other issue material
including application forms to stock exchanges, syndicate members, registrar to issue, registrar
and share transfer agents, depository participants, stock brokers, underwriters, bankers to the
issue, investors’ associations and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue.


Prohibition on payment of incentives
258. Any person connected with the distribution of the issue, shall not offer any incentive,
whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any
person for making an application in the initial public offer, except for fees or commission for
services rendered in relation to the issue.



444
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “Part E of Schedule VIII”.

                                                   190
445[***]




Underwriting
260. (1) The initial public offer shall be underwritten for hundred per cent of the offer and shall
not be restricted upto the minimum subscription level.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall underwrite at least fifteen per cent. of the issue size on their own
account(s).
(3) The issuer, in consultation with lead manager(s), 446[shall appoint merchant bankers or stock
brokers, registered with the Board, to act as underwriters,] and the lead manager(s) may enter into
an agreement with the nominated investors indicating therein the number of specified securities
which they agree to subscribe at the issue price in case of under-subscription.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall file an undertaking to the Board that the issue has been hundred per
cent. underwritten along with the list of underwriters, nominated investors and sub-underwriters
indicating the extent of underwriting or subscription commitment made by each of them, one day
before the opening of issue.
(5) If any of the underwriters fail to fulfill their underwriting obligations or the nominated
investors fail to subscribe to the unsubscribed portion, the lead manager(s) shall fulfill the
underwriting obligations.
(6) The underwriters/ sub-underwriters, other than the lead manager(s) and the nominated
investors, who have entered into an agreement for subscribing to the issue in case of under-
subscription, shall not subscribe to the issue made under this Chapter in any manner except for
fulfilling their obligations under their respective agreements with the lead manager(s) in this
regard.
(7) All underwriting and subscription arrangements made by the lead manager(s) shall be
disclosed in the offer document.


Market making

445
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. Prior to its omission, Regulation 259 read as follows-
         “Security deposit
         259. (1) The issuer shall, before the opening of subscription list, deposit with the designated stock exchange,
         an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the issue size available for subscription to the public in
         the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
         (2)The amount specified in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by
         the Board.”
446
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words, numbers and symbols “may appoint underwriters in
accordance with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993”.

                                                         191
261. (1) The lead manager(s) shall ensure compulsory market making through the stock brokers of
the SME exchange(s) appointed by the issuer, in the manner specified by the Board for a
minimum period of three years from the date of listing of the specified securities or from the date
of migration from the Main Board in terms of regulation 276.
(2) The market maker or issuer, in consultation with the lead manager(s) may enter into
agreements with the nominated investors for receiving or delivering the specified securities in
market making, subject to the prior approval of the SME exchange.
(3) The issuer shall disclose the details of the market making arrangement in the offer document.
(4) The specified securities being bought or sold in the process of market making may be
transferred to or from the nominated investors with whom the lead manager(s) and the issuer have
entered into an agreement for market making:
Provided that the inventory of the market maker, as on the date of allotment of the specified
securities, shall be at least five per cent. of the specified securities proposed to be listed on SME
exchange.
(5) The market maker shall buy the entire shareholding of a shareholder of the issuer in one lot,
where the value of such shareholding is less than the minimum contract size allowed for trading
on the SME exchange:
Provided that market maker shall not sell in lots less than the minimum contract size allowed for
trading on the SME exchange.
(6) The market maker shall not buy the shares from the promoters or persons belonging to the
promoter group of the issuer or any person who has acquired shares from such promoter or person
belonging to the promoter group during the compulsory market making period.
(7) The promoters’ holding shall not be eligible for offering to the market maker during the
compulsory market making period:
Provided that the promoters’ holding which is not locked-in as per these regulations can be traded
with prior permission of the SME exchange, in the manner specified by the Board.
(8) The lead manager(s) may be represented on the board of directors of the issuer subject to the
agreement between the issuer and the lead manager(s) who have the responsibility of market
making.




                                                192
       Monitoring agency
       262. (1) If the issue size, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders, exceeds
       447
             [₹50 crores], the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be
       monitored by a 448[credit rating agency registered with the Board:]
       Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made by a
       bank or public financial institution or an insurance company.
       (2) The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule
       XI on a quarterly basis, till 449[hundred per cent]. of the proceeds of the issue 450[***] have been
       utilised.
       (3) The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the
       findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
       (4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publicly disseminate the
       report of the monitoring agency by uploading the same on its website as well as submitting the
       same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed.
451
      [(5) In an issue where the issuer is not required to appoint a monitoring agency under this
       regulation, the issuer shall submit a certificate of the statutory auditor for utilization of money
       raised through the public issue (excluding offer for sale by selling shareholders) to SME
       exchange(s) while filing the quarterly financial results, till the issue proceeds are fully utilized.
       (6) In an issue where working capital is one of the objects of the issue and the amount raised for
       the said object exceeds five crore rupees, the issuer shall submit a certificate of the statutory
       auditor to SME exchange(s) while filing the quarterly financial results, for use of funds as
       working capital in the same format as disclosed in the offer document, till the proceeds raised for
       the said object are fully utilized.]


       Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports
       263. All public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports shall
       comply with provisions of Schedule IX.


       447
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “one hundred crore rupees”.
       448
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbol “public financial institution or by one of
       the scheduled commercial banks named in the offer document as bankers of the issuer:”.
       449
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “at least ninety five per cent”.
       450
           The symbols and words “, excluding the proceeds raised for general corporate purposes,” omitted by the
       Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
       2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
       451
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                             193
      Issue-related advertisements
      264. 452[(1) Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the issuer shall, after filing the
      prospectus with the Registrar of Companies, make a pre-issue and price band advertisement in the
      same newspapers in which the public announcement under sub-regulation (4) of Regulation 250 was
      published.]
      (2) The pre-issue 453[and price band] advertisement shall be in the format and shall contain the
      disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule X.
454
      [***]
      (3) The issuer may issue advertisements for issue opening and issue closing advertisements, which
      shall be in the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule X.
      (4) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving
      an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed or indicating investors’
      response to the issue.
      (5) An announcement regarding closure of the issue shall be made only after the lead manager(s) is
      satisfied that at least ninety per cent. of the offer has been subscribed and a certificate has been
      obtained to that effect from the registrar to the issue:
      Provided that such an announcement shall not be made before the date on which the issue is to be
      closed except for issue closing advertisement made in the format prescribed in these regulations.




      Opening of the issue
      265. The issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of 455[filing] the
      offer document with the Registrar of Companies.


      452
         Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under,-

               “(1) Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the issuer shall, after filing the prospectus with
               the Registrar of Companies, make a pre-issue advertisement in one English national daily newspaper with
               wide circulation, Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language newspaper
               with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated.”
      453
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
      454
          Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
      08.03.2025. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under:

               “Provided that the disclosures in relation to price band or floor price and financial ratios contained therein
               shall only be applicable where the issuer opts to announce the price band or floor price along with the pre-
               issue advertisement pursuant to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 250.”
      455
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”.

                                                               194
      Period of subscription
      266. (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, a public issue shall be kept open for at
      least three working days and not more than ten working days.
      (2) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed
      in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions
      of sub-regulation (1).
      (3) In case of force majeure, banking strike or similar 456[unforeseen] circumstances, the issuer may,
      for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring
      prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or the issue period disclosed in the prospectus (in case of a
      fixed price issue), for a minimum period of 457[one working day], subject to the provisions of sub-
      regulation (1).




      Application and minimum application value
      267. (1) A person shall not make an application in the net offer category for a number of specified
      securities that exceeds the total number of specified securities offered to the public.
      Provided that the maximum application by non-institutional investors shall not exceed total number
      of specified securities offered in the issue less total number of specified securities offered in the issue
      to qualified institutional buyers.
      (2) The minimum application size shall be 458[two lots] per application459[:]
460
      [Provided that the minimum application size shall be above ₹2 lakhs.]
      (3) The issuer shall invite applications in multiples of the 461[lot size].
      (4) The minimum sum payable on application per specified security shall at least be twenty five per
      cent. of the issue price:




      456
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
      457
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024 for the words “three working days”
      458
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “one lakh rupees”.
      459
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “.”.
      460
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
      461
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol, letter, words and numerals “minimum application
      amount, an illustration whereof is given in Part B of Schedule XIV”.

                                                           195
       Provided that in case of an offer for sale, the full issue price for each specified security shall be
       payable on application.
       Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “minimum application value” shall be with
       reference to the issue price of the specified securities and not with reference to the amount payable on
       application.


       Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
       268. (1) The issuer shall not make an allotment pursuant to a public issue if the number of allottees in
       an initial public offer is less than 462[two hundred].
       (2) The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered through the
       offer document except in case of oversubscription for the purpose of rounding off to make
       allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange.
       Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than ten per cent. of the net
       offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots.
       (3) The allotment of specified securities to applicants other than 463[*] individual investors464[who
       applies for minimum application size, non-institutional investors] and anchor investors shall be on
       proportionate basis within the specified investor categories and the number of securities allotted
       shall be rounded off to the nearest integer, subject to minimum allotment being equal to the
       minimum application size as determined and disclosed in the offer document:
       Provided that the value of specified securities allotted to any person, except in case of employees,
       in pursuance of reservation made under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) or clause (a) of sub-
       regulation (2) of regulation 254, shall not exceed two lakhs rupees.
465
      [(3A) Subject to the availability of shares in non-institutional investors’ category, the allotment of
       specified securities to each non-institutional investor shall not be less than the minimum
       application size in non-institutional investor category, and the remaining shares, if any, shall be
       allotted on a proportionate basis in accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in
       Schedule XIII of these regulations.]




       462
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “fifty”.
       463
           The word “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
       Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
       464
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
       465
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                          196
(4) The authorised employees of the stock exchange, along with the lead manager(s) and registrars
to the issue, shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner in
accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in 466[Parts A and A2] of Schedule XIV.


Allotment, refund and payment of interest
269. (1) The registrars to the issue, in consultation with the issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure
that the specified securities are allotted and/or application monies are refunded or unblocked within
such time as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities,
refunding or unlocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(3) Where the specified securities are not allotted and/or application monies are not refunded or
unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay
interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum and within such time as disclosed in the offer
document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same.


Post-issue advertisements
270. (1) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that advertisement giving details relating to
subscription, basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of all applications including
ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA,
date of completion of dispatch of refund orders, as applicable, or instructions to self certified
syndicate banks by the Registrar, date of credit of specified securities and date of filing of listing
application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in
at least one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily
newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation
at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2) Details specified in sub regulation (1) shall also be placed on the website of the stock
exchanges.


Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s)
271. (1) The responsibility of the lead manager(s) shall continue until completion of the issue
process and for any issue related matter thereafter.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any
issue related activities.

466
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word and letter “Part A”.

                                                   197
(3) The lead manager(s) shall be responsible for and co-ordinate with the registrars to the issue
and with various intermediaries at regular intervals after the closure of the issue to monitor the
flow of applications from syndicate member(s) or collecting bank branches and or self-certified
syndicate banks, processing of the applications including application form for ASBA and other
matters till the basis of allotment is finalised, credit of the specified securities to the demat
accounts of the allottees and unblocking of ASBA accounts/ despatch of refund orders are
completed and securities are listed, as applicable.
(4) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead
manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board.
(5)In case there is a devolvement on underwriters, the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the notice
for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within a period of ten days
from the date of closure of the issue.
(6) In the case of undersubscribed issues that are underwritten, the lead manager(s) shall furnish
information in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting devolvement to
the Board in the format specified in Schedule XVIII.




Release of subscription money
272. (1) The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing
and trading approvals that all formalities in connection with the issue have been completed and
that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of
failure of the issue.
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where
the specified securities were to be listed, it shall refund through verifiable means the entire monies
received within 467[four days] of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the
application for listing of specified securities, and if any such money is not repaid within 468[four
days] after the issuer becomes liable to repay it the issuer and every director of the company who
is an officer in default shall, on and from the expiry of the 469[fourth day], be jointly and severally
liable to repay that money with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.


467
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “seven days”.
468
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eight days”.
469
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eighth day”.

                                                   198
      (2) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the issue are released
      to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of the Section 40 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013,
      as applicable.


      Post-issue reports
      273. The lead manager(s) shall submit a final post-issue report as specified in Part A of Schedule
      XVII, along with a due diligence certificate as per the format specified in Form F of Schedule V,
      within seven days of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or within seven days of refund
      of money in case of failure of issue.


470
      [Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group and other pre-IPO
      transactions
      274. (1) The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoter and promoter
      group between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may
      be, and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty-
      four hours of such transactions.
      (2) The issuer shall also ensure that any proposed pre-IPO placement disclosed in the draft offer
      document shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty-four hours of such pre-IPO
      transactions (in part or in entirety).]



      Listing
      275. Where any listed issuer issues specified securities in accordance with provisions of this
      Chapter, it shall migrate the specified securities already listed on any recognised stock
      exchange(s) to the SME exchange.


      Migration to the SME exchange
      276. A listed issuer whose post-issue 471[paid-up] capital is less than twenty five crore rupees may
      migrate its specified securities to SME exchange if its shareholders approve such migration by




      470
         Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 274 read as under:

              “Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group
              274. The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoter and promoter group between
              the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the date of closure
              of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty four hours of such transactions.”

                                                             199
passing a special resolution through postal ballot to this effect and if such issuer fulfils the
eligibility criteria for listing laid down by the SME exchange:
Provided that the special resolution shall be acted upon if and only if the votes cast by
shareholders other than promoters in favour of the proposal amount to at least two times the
number of votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal.


Migration to the main board
277. An issuer, whose specified securities are listed on a SME Exchange and whose post-issue
472
      [paid-up] capital is more than ten crore rupees and up to twenty five crore rupees, may migrate
its specified securities to the main board of the stock exchanges if its shareholders approve such a
migration by passing a special resolution through postal ballot to this effect and if such issuer
fulfils the eligibility criteria for listing laid down by the Main Board:
Provided that the special resolution shall be acted upon if and only if the votes cast by
shareholders other than promoters in favour of the proposal amount to at least two times the
number of votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal.


PART IX: MISCELLANEOUS
Restriction on further capital issues
278. An issuer shall not make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether by way
of public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of bonus shares
or otherwise, except pursuant to an employee stock option scheme 473[or a stock appreciation right
scheme], during the period between the date of filing the draft offer document and the listing of the
specified securities offered through the offer document or refund of application monies unless full
disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities or amount proposed to be raised
from such further issue are made in such draft offer document or offer document, as the case may
be.


Price stabilisation through green shoe option
279. (1) The issuer may provide green shoe option for stabilising the post listing price of its specified
securities, subject to the following:


471
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “face value”.
472
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “face value”.
473
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                   200
a)    the issuer has been authorized, by a resolution passed in the general meeting of shareholders
      approving the public issue, to allot specified securities to the stabilising agent, if required, on
      the expiry of the stabilisation period;
b)    the issuer has appointed a lead manager(s) appointed by the issuer as a stabilising agent, who
      shall be responsible for the price stabilisation process;
c)    prior to filing the draft offer document, the issuer and the stabilising agent have entered into an
      agreement, stating all the terms and conditions relating to the green shoe option including fees
      charged and expenses to be incurred by the stabilising agent for discharging its responsibilities;
d)    prior to filing the offer document, the stabilising agent has entered into an agreement with the
      promoters or pre-issue shareholders or both for borrowing specified securities from them in
      accordance with clause (g) of this sub-regulation, specifying therein the maximum number of
      specified securities that may be borrowed for the purpose of allotment or allocation of specified
      securities in excess of the issue size (hereinafter referred to as the “over- allotment”), which
      shall not be in excess of fifteen per cent. of the issue size;
e)    subject to clause (d), the lead manager(s), in consultation with the stabilising agent, shall
      determine the amount of specified securities to be over-allotted in the public issue;
f)    the draft offer document and offer document shall contain all material disclosures about the
      green shoe option specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VI;
g)    in case of an initial public offer pre-issue shareholders and promoters and in case of a further
      public offer pre-issue shareholders holding more than five per cent. specified securities and
      promoters, may lend specified securities to the extent of the proposed over-allotment;
h)    the specified securities borrowed shall be in dematerialised form and allocation of these
      securities shall be made pro-rata to all successful applicants.
(2) For the purpose of stabilisation of post-listing price of the specified securities, the stabilising
agent shall determine the relevant aspects including the timing of buying such securities, quantity to
be bought and the price at which such securities are to be bought from the market.
(3) The stabilisation process shall be available for a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on
which trading permission is given by the stock exchanges in respect of the specified securities
allotted in the public issue.
(4) The stabilising agent shall open a special account, distinct from the issue account, with a bank for
crediting the monies received from the applicants against the over-allotment and a special account
with a depository participant for crediting specified securities to be bought from the market during
the stabilisation period out of the monies credited in the special bank account.




                                                    201
(5) The specified securities bought from the market and credited in the special account with the
depository participant shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders immediately, in
any case not later than two working days after the end of the stabilization period.
(6) On expiry of the stabilisation period, if the stabilising agent has not been able to buy specified
securities from the market to the extent of such securities over-allotted, the issuer shall allot specified
securities at issue price in dematerialised form to the extent of the shortfall to the special account
with the depository participant, within five days of the closure of the stabilisation period and such
specified securities shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders by the stabilising
agent in lieu of the specified securities borrowed from them and the account with the depository
participant shall be closed thereafter.
(7) The issuer shall make a listing application in respect of the further specified securities allotted
under sub-regulation (6), to all the stock exchanges where the specified securities allotted in the
public issue are listed and the provisions of Chapter VII shall not be applicable to such allotment.
(8) The stabilising agent shall remit the monies with respect to the specified securities allotted under
sub-regulation (6) to the issuer from the special bank account.
(9) Any monies left in the special bank account after remittance of monies to the issuer under sub-
regulation (8) and deduction of expenses incurred by the stabilising agent for the stabilisation process
shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the Board and the
special bank account shall be closed soon thereafter.
(10)    The stabilising agent shall submit a report to the stock exchange on a daily basis during the
stabilisation period and a final report to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XV.
(11)    The stabilising agent shall maintain a register for a period of at least three years from the date
of the end of the stabilisation period and such register shall contain the following particulars:
a) The names of the promoters or pre-issue shareholders from whom the specified securities were
    borrowed and the number of specified securities borrowed from each of them;
b) The price, date and time in respect of each transaction effected in the course of the stabilisation
    process; and
c) The details of allotment made by the issuer on expiry of the stabilisation process.


Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities
280. (1) The issuer shall not alter the terms (including the terms of issue) of specified securities
which may adversely affect the interests of the holders of that specified securities, except with the
consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths of the specified securities of that
class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified
securities of that class.

                                                   202
       (2) Where the post-issue 474[paid-up] capital of an issuer listed on a SME exchange is likely to
       increase beyond twenty five crore rupees by virtue of any further issue of capital by the issuer by
       way of rights issue, preferential issue, bonus issue, etc. the issuer shall migrate its specified
       securities listed on a SME exchange to the Main Board and seek listing of the specified securities
       proposed to be issued on the Main Board subject to the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria for
       listing of specified securities laid down by the Main Board:
       Provided that no further issue of capital by the issuer shall be made unless –
       a) the shareholders of the issuer have approved the migration by passing a special resolution
             through postal ballot wherein the votes cast by shareholders other than promoters in favour of
             the proposal amount to at least two times the number of votes cast by shareholders other than
             promoter shareholders against the proposal;
       b) the issuer has obtained an in-principle approval from the Main Board for listing of its entire
             specified securities on it.
475
      [Provided further that where the post-issue paid-up capital pursuant to further issue of capital
       including by way of rights issue, preferential issue, bonus issue, is likely to increase beyond ₹25
       crores, the issuer may undertake further issuance of capital without migration from SME
       exchange to the main board, subject to the issuer undertaking to comply with the provisions of the
       Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
       Regulations, 2015, as applicable to companies listed on the main board of the stock exchange(s).]


       Further Issues
       281. An issuer listed on a SME exchange making a further issue of capital by way of a rights
       issue, or further public offer or preferential issue or bonus issue etc. may do so by adhering to
       applicable requirements mentioned in these regulations.


 476[Post-listing exit opportunity for dissenting shareholders


       281A. The promoters or shareholders in control of an issuer shall provide an exit offer to
       dissenting shareholders as provided for in the Companies Act, 2013 in case of change in objects
       or variation in the terms of contract related to objects referred to in the offer document as per the
       conditions and in the manner provided in Schedule XX:


       474
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “face value”.
       475
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
       476
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                          203
           Provided that the exit offer shall not apply where there are neither any identifiable
promoters nor any shareholders in control of the issuer.]




                    CHAPTER X – 477[INNOVATORS GROWTH PLATFORM]
PART I: APPLICABILITY


282. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to issuers seeking listing of their specified
securities pursuant to an initial public offer or for only trading on a stock exchange of their
specified securities without making a public offer.
(2) The provisions of these regulations, in respect of the matters not specifically dealt or excluded
under this Chapter, shall apply mutatis mutandis to any listing or trading of specified securities
under this Chapter.
Provided that the following shall not apply:
           (a) sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 on restrictions on the amount of general corporate
                purposes; and
           (b) sub-regulation (1) and (2) of regulation 6 on eligibility requirements
(3) The 478[Innovators Growth Platform] shall be accessible only to institutional investors and
non-institutional investors 479[*].
480
      [(4) If an issuer has issued SR equity shares to its promoters/ founders, the said issuer shall be
allowed to make an initial public offer of only ordinary shares for listing on the Innovators
Growth Platform subject to compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and continued
compliance with the provisions for SR equity shares in accordance with sub-regulation (3) of
regulation 6.]


Eligibility




477
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “INSTITUTIONAL
TRADING PLATFORM”.
478
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as, “institutional trading
platform”.
479
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its omission, it read as “and not to retail individual
investors”.
480
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021.

                                                       204
283. 481[(1) An issuer which is intensive in the use of technology, information technology,
intellectual property, data analytics, bio-technology or nano-technology to provide products,
services or business platforms with substantial value addition shall be eligible for listing on the
innovators growth platform, provided that as on the date of filing of draft information document
or draft offer document with the Board, as the case may be, twenty five per cent of the pre-issue
capital of the Issuer Company for at least a period of 482[one year], should have been held by:
      I.       Qualified Institutional Buyers;
               483
                     [*]
484
      [II.] 485[ Innovators Growth Platform Investors] for the purpose of Innovators Growth Platform;
486
      [III.]     The following regulated entities:
                     487
           a.              [Foreign Portfolio Investor];
           b. An entity meeting all the following criteria:
                 i.         It is a pooled investment fund with minimum assets under management of one
                            hundred and fifty million USD;
                ii.         It is registered with a financial sector regulator in the jurisdiction of which it is a
                            resident;
               iii.         It is resident of a country whose securities market regulator is a signatory to the
                            International Organization of Securities Commission’s Multilateral Memorandum
                            of Understanding (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory to Bilateral
                            Memorandum of Understanding with the Board;

481
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as:
“(1) The following issuers shall be eligible for listing on the institutional trading platform:
 a) an issuer which is intensive in the use of technology, information technology, intellectual property, data
       analytics, bio-technology or nano-technology to provide products, services or business platforms with
       substantial value addition and at least twenty five per cent of its pre-issue capital is held by qualified
       institutional buyer(s) as on the date of filing of draft information document or draft offer document with the
       Board, as the case may be; or
 b) any other issuer in which at least fifty per cent of the pre-issue capital is held by qualified institutional buyers as
       on the date of filing of draft information document or draft offer document with the Board, as the case may be.
(1) No person, individually or collectively with persons acting in concert, shall hold twenty five per cent or more of
the post-issue share capital in an entity specified in sub-regulation (1).”
482
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as, “two years”.
483
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its omission, it read as:
  “II. Family trust with net-worth of more than five hundred crore rupees, as per the last audited financial statements;”
484
       Renumbered by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(III)”.
485
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as, “Accredited Investors”.
486
    Renumbered by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(IV)”.
487
    Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.23.09.2019. Prior to its substitution it read as, “Category III Foreign Portfolio Investor”.

                                                             205
              iv.     It is not resident in a country identified in the public statement of Financial Action
                      Task Force as:
                       a) a jurisdiction having a strategic Anti-Money Laundering or Combating the
                           Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter measures apply; or
                       b) a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the
                           deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan developed with the
                           Financial Action Task Force to address the deficiencies.
488
      [IV. Any other class of investors as specified by Securities and Exchange Board of India from
time to time.]


Explanation:
       (a) The following entities shall be eligible to be considered as 489[ Innovators Growth Platform
             Investors] for the purpose of innovators growth platform:
             (i) any individual with total gross income of fifty lakhs rupees annually and who has
                    minimum liquid net worth of five crore rupees; or
             (ii) any body corporate with net worth of twenty five crore rupees.
       490
             [(iii) any family trust with net worth of twenty five crore rupees.]
       (b) 491[ Pre-issue capital held by promoters/promoter groups, even if they are registered as
             Innovators Growth Platform Investors, shall not be considered for the 25% pre-issue
             capital eligibility requirement specified under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 283].
       (c) For the purpose of accreditation: The persons /corporate bodies who wish to get
             accreditation for the purpose of innovators growth platform, shall approach the stock
             exchanges or depositories and follow the procedures prescribed by the Board and / or such
             stock exchange or depository for the purpose of accreditation as an 492[ Innovators Growth
             Platform Investor], from time to time.]




488
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021.
489
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as, “Accredited Investors”.
490
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021.
491
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as, “Not more than ten per
cent of the pre-issue capital may be held by Accredited Investors”.
492
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as, “Accredited Investor”.

                                                        206
493
      [(2)] An issuer shall be eligible for listing on the 494[ Innovators Growth Platform] if none of
the promoters or directors of the issuer company is a fugitive economic offender.


 PART II: LISTING WITHOUT A PUBLIC ISSUE


 Listing without a public issue
 284. (1) An issuer seeking listing of its specified securities without making a public offer, shall
 file a draft information document along with the necessary documents with the Board in
 accordance with these regulations along with the fee as specified in Schedule III of these
 regulations.
 (2) The draft information document shall contain disclosures as specified for the draft offer
 documents in these regulations as specified in Part A of Schedule VI.
 (3) The regulations relating to the following as stated under the Chapter of Initial Public Offer on
 Main Board shall not be applicable:
 a) allotment;
 b) issue opening or closing;
 c) advertisements;
 d) underwriting;
 e) sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5;
 f)     pricing;
 g) dispatch of issue material; and
 h) other such provisions related to offer of specified securities to the public.
 (4) The issuer shall obtain an in-principle approval from the stock exchanges on which it
 proposes to get its specified securities listed.
 (5) The issuer shall list its specified securities on the recognised stock exchange(s within thirty
 days:
 a) from the date of issuance of observations by the Board; or
 b) from the expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (4) of regulation 25, if the Board
        has not issued any such observations.




493
    Renumbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its renumbering, it read as sub-regulation (3).
494
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as, “institutional trading
platform”.



                                                       207
 (6) The issuer which has received an in-principle approval from the stock exchange for listing of
 its specified securities, shall be deemed to have been waived by the Board under sub-rule (7) of
 rule 19 from the requirement of minimum offer to the public as per the provisions of clause (b)
 of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 for the limited purpose
 of listing on the 495[innovators growth platform].
 (7) Provisions relating to minimum public shareholding shall not be applicable.
 (8) The draft and final information document shall be approved by the board of directors of the
 issuer and shall be signed by all directors, the Chief Executive Officer, i.e., the Managing
 Director or Manager within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Chief Financial
 Officer, i.e., the Whole-time Finance Director or any other person heading the finance function
 and discharging that function.
 (9) The signatories shall also certify that all disclosures made in the information document are
 true and correct.
 (10) In case of mis-statement in the information document or any omission therein, any person
 who has authorized the issue of information document shall be liable in accordance with the
 provisions of the Act and regulations made thereunder.
 Explanation: Under this Part, the phrases ‘pre-issue’ and ‘post-issue’, wherever they occur shall
 be construed as ‘pre-listing’ and ‘post-listing’, respectively.




 PART III: LISTING PURSUANT TO AN INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER


 Disclosures in draft offer document and offer document
 285. (1) An issuer seeking to issue and list its specified securities shall file a draft offer document
 along with necessary documents with the Board in accordance with these regulations along with
 the fees as specified in Schedule III of these regulations.
 (2) The draft offer document shall disclose the broad objects of the issue.
 (3) The basis of issue price shall include disclosures, except projections, as deemed fit by the
 issuer in order to enable the investors to take informed decisions and the disclosures shall
 suitably contain the basis of valuation.




495
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “institutional trading
platform”.

                                                       208
 496[Minimum public shareholding norms and minimum offer size


 285A.(1) The issuer shall be in compliance with minimum public shareholding requirements
 specified in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
 (2) The minimum offer size shall be ten crore rupees.”]


 Minimum application size
 286. The minimum application size shall be 497[two lakh rupees and in multiples thereof].


 Allocation and allotment
 287. (1) The number of allottees in the initial public offer shall at least be 498[fifty].
 499
       [(2) The allotment to institutional investors as well as non-institutional investors shall be on a
 proportionate basis.]
  500
        [*]
 501
       [(3)] Any under-subscription in the non-institutional investor category shall be available for
 subscription under the institutional investors’ category.
  502
        [(4) The issuer may allocate up to sixty per cent of the issue size on a discretionary basis,
  prior to the issue opening, to eligible investors as identified under sub-regulation (1) of
  regulation 283, in accordance with the requirements with respect to anchor investors for public
  issue made on the SME exchange as specified in Part A of Schedule XIII:




496
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019.
497
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “ten lakh rupees”.
498
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “two hundred”.
499
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as:
“(2)The allocation in the net offer to public category shall be as follows:
          (a) seventy-five per cent to institutional investors:
               Provided that there shall be no separate allocation for anchor investors;
          (b) twenty-five per cent to non-institutional investors”
500
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its omission, it read as:
“(3) The allotment to institutional investors may be on a discretionary or a proportionate basis whereas the allotment
to non-institutional investors shall be on a proportionate basis.
(4) The mode of allotment to institutional investors, i.e., whether discretionary or proportionate, shall be disclosed
prior to or at the time of filing of the offer document.
(5) In case of discretionary allotment to institutional investors, no institutional investor shall be allotted more than ten
per cent. of the issue size.”
501
     Renumbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its renumbering, it read as sub-regulation “(6)”.
502
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021.

                                                           209
  Provided that the price of the specified securities offered to eligible investors shall not be lower
  than the price offered to other applicants.
  Provided further that eligible investors shall make an application of a value of at least fifty lakh
  rupees.]


 PART IV: GENERAL CONDITIONS


 Lock-in
 288. (1) The entire pre-issue capital of the shareholders shall be locked-in for a period of six
 months from the date of allotment in case of listing pursuant to a public issue or date of listing in
 case of listing without a public issue:
 Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to:
      a) equity shares allotted to employees, whether currently an employee or not, under an
                                                                                       503
         employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme                             [or a stock right
         appreciation scheme] of the issuer prior to the initial public offer, if the issuer has made
         full disclosures with respect to such options or scheme in accordance with Part A of
         Schedule VI;
      b) equity shares held by an employee stock option trust or transferred to the employees by an
         employee stock option trust pursuant to exercise of options by the employees, whether
         currently employees or not, in accordance with the employee stock option plan or
         employee stock purchase scheme 504[or a stock right appreciation scheme].
         Provided that the equity shares allotted to the employees shall be subject to the provisions
         of lock-in as specified under the 505[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based
         Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021].
      c) equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of Category I
         506
               [or Category II] or a foreign venture capital investor:
         Provided that such equity shares shall be locked-in for a period of at least one year from
         the date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund or foreign
         venture capital investor.

503
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
504
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
505
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023 for the words and symbols “Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014”.
506
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021.

                                                      210
        d)     equity shares held by persons other than the promoters, continuously for a period of at
               least one year prior to the date of listing in case of listing without a public issue:
               Explanation 507[I]: For the purpose of clause (c) and (d), in case such equity shares have
               resulted pursuant to conversion of fully paid-up compulsorily convertible securities, the
               holding period of such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares
               together shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period and the
               convertible securities shall be deemed to be fully paid-up, if the entire consideration
               payable thereon has been paid at the time of their conversion.
        508
              [Explanation II: For the purpose of clauses (a) and (b), equity shares shall include any
               equity shares allotted pursuant to a bonus issue against equity shares allotted pursuant to
               an employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme or a stock appreciation right
               scheme.]
  (2) The specified securities held by the promoters and locked-in may be pledged with any
  scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution or systemically important non-banking
  finance company as a collateral security for a loan granted by such bank or institution or
  systemically important non-banking finance company if the pledge of specified securities is one
  of the terms of sanction of the loan.
  (3) The specified securities that are locked-in may be transferable in accordance with regulation
  288 of these regulations.
  (4) All specified securities allotted on a discretionary basis shall be locked-in in accordance with
  the requirements for lock-in for the anchor investors on the main board of the stock exchange, as
  specified under Part A of Schedule XIII.
509
      [(5) The SR equity shares shall be locked-in till conversion into equity shares with voting rights
      similar to that of ordinary shares or shall be locked-in for a period specified in sub-regulations
      (1), whichever is later.]


  Trading lot
  289. The minimum trading lot on the stock exchange shall be 510[two lakh rupees and in
  multiples thereof].


 507
      Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
 508
      Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
 509
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
 Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021.
 510
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “ten lakh rupees”.

                                                         211
 Exit of issuers whose securities are trading without making a public offer
 290. An issuer whose specified securities are traded on the 511[innovators growth platform]
 without making a public issue may exit from that platform, if
 a)   its shareholders approve such an exit by passing a special resolution through postal ballot
      where ninety per cent of the total votes and the majority of non-promoter votes have been
      cast in favor of such proposal; and
 b)   the recognised stock exchange where its shares are listed approves of such an exit.




 512[***]




511
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “institutional trading
platform”.
 512
      Regulation 290A omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
 Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the omission, regulation 290A read as
 follows:
        “Exit of issuers whose securities are listed and trading on the Innovators Growth Platform pursuant
        to an initial public offer.
        290A (1) The provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares)
        Regulations, 2009, in respect of the matters not specifically dealt or excluded under this regulation,
        shall apply mutatis mutandis to delisting of specified securities under these regulations:
        Provided that the following provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of
        Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 shall not apply:
               (a)     clause (a) and (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8 of the Securities and Exchange
                       Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009, relating to conditions and
                       procedure for delisting where exit opportunity is required;
               (b)     regulation 15 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares)
                       Regulations, 2009, relating to offer price; and
               (c)    regulation 17 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares)
                       Regulations, 2009, relating to minimum number of equity shares to be acquired.
        (2) An issuer company whose specified securities are traded on the Innovators Growth Platform
        pursuant to an initial public offer may exit from the Innovators Growth Platform, if -
                (a)    such an exit is approved by the board of directors of the company in its meeting;
                (b)    such an exit is approved by the shareholders of the company by a special resolution
                       passed through postal ballot or e-voting, after disclosure of all material facts in the
                       explanatory statement sent to the shareholders in relation to such resolution:


                                                         212
 Withdrawal of approval by the stock exchange
 291. (1) The recognised stock exchange may delist the specified securities of an issuer listed
 without making a public issue upon non-compliance of the conditions of listing and in the
 manner as specified by the stock exchange.
 (2) No issuer promoted by the promoters and directors of an entity delisted under sub-regulation
 (1), shall be permitted to list on the 513[innovators growth platform] for a period of five years
 from the date of such delisting:
 Provided that the provisions of this regulation shall not apply to another issuer promoted by any
 of the independent directors of such a delisted issuer.


514[PART V: MIGRATION TO THE MAIN BOARD




Granting companies listed on the Innovators Growth Platform pursuant to an initial
public offer, an option to trade under the regular category of the main board of the stock
exchange



                       Provided further that the special resolution shall be acted upon only if the votes cast by
                       the majority of public shareholders are in favor of such exit proposal;
                 (c)   delisting price is based on a floor price determined in terms of regulation 8 of Securities
                       and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
                       Regulations, 2011, as may be applicable, and an additional delisting premium justified by
                       the acquirer / promoter;
                 (d) the post offer acquirer / promoter shareholding (along with the persons acting in concert
                       with the acquirer / promoter), taken together with the shares tendered reaches seventy
                       five per cent of the total issued shares of that class and at least fifty per cent shares of the
                       public shareholders as on date of the meeting referred to in clause (a) of this sub-
                       regulation are tendered and accepted; and

                 (e)   recognised stock exchange(s) where its shares are listed approves of such an exit .”

513
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “institutional trading
platform”.
514
    Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.23.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as;
 “Migration to the main board
 292.An issuer that has listed its specified securities on a recognised stock exchange may at its option migrate to the
 main board of that recognised stock exchange after expiry of three years from the date of listing subject to
 compliance with the eligibility requirements of the stock exchange.”



                                                           213
292. (1) A company shall be eligible to trade under the regular category of the main board of the
stock exchanges, subject to fulfillment of the conditions of the stock exchanges, if any, and the
fulfillment of the following conditions:
  (a)      It has listed its specified securities for a minimum period of one year on the Innovators
           Growth Platform of a recognised stock exchange;
  (b)      It has minimum of two hundred shareholders, at the time of making the application for
           trading under the regular category;
  (c)      The company, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors are not debarred from
           accessing the capital market by the Board;
  (d)      None of the promoters or directors of the company is a promoter or director of any other
           company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board;
  (e)      The company or any of its promoters or directors is not a 515[wilful defaulter or a
           fraudulent borrower]; and
  (f)      None of the promoters or directors of the Company is a fugitive economic offender.

Explanation: The restrictions under (c) and (d) above shall not apply to persons or
entities mentioned therein, who were debarred in the past by the Board and the period
of debarment is over as on the date of application for migration of trading to the regular
category of the main board of the stock exchange.


Eligibility requirements
(2) A company shall be eligible to trade under the regular category of the main board of the
stock exchanges, only if:
 (a) it has net tangible assets of at least three crore rupees, calculated on a consolidated
        basis, in each of the preceding three full years (of twelve months each), of which
        not more than fifty per cent. are held in monetary assets;
 (b) it has an average operating profit of at least fifteen crore rupees, calculated on a
        consolidated basis, during the preceding three years (of twelve months each), with
        operating profit in each of these preceding three years;
 (c) it has a net worth of at least one crore rupees in each of the preceding three full years (of
        twelve months each), calculated on a consolidated basis; and




515
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.

                                                    214
 (d) in case it has changed its name within the last one year, at least fifty per cent of
      the revenue, calculated on a consolidated basis, for the preceding one full year has
      been earned by it from the activity indicated by its new name.
(3) 516[A company not satisfying the conditions laid down under sub-regulation (2) of
regulation 292, shall, as on date of application for migration under the regular category, have
fifty per cent of its capital held by Qualified Institutional Buyers.]

Minimum promoters’ contribution
(4) The promoters of the company shall hold at least twenty per cent of the total capital:
Provided that in case the total capital held by the promoters is less than twenty per cent,
alternative investment funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial
banks or public financial institutions or insurance companies registered with Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India 517[or any non-individual public shareholder
holding at least five per cent. of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual or non-individual)
forming part of promoter group other than the promoter(s)] may contribute to meet the shortfall
in minimum contribution as specified, subject to a maximum of ten per cent of the total capital
without being identified as promoter(s):
Provided further that the requirement of minimum promoters ’contribution shall not apply in
case a company does not have any identifiable promoter.




Lock-in period
(5) (a) The minimum promoters’ contribution including contribution made by alternative
investment funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or
public    financial     institutions    or    insurance     companies       registered     with     the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India 518[or any non-individual public shareholder
holding at least five per cent. of the post-issue capital or any entity (individual or non-individual)
forming part of promoter group other than the promoter(s)], shall be locked in for a period of
three years from the date on which trading approval in regular category of main board is

516
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w.e.f.05.05.2021. Prior to its substitution, it read as;
“A company not satisfying the conditions laid down under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 292, shall, at the time of
applying to trade under the regular category, have seventy five per cent. of its capital, as on date of application for
migration, held by Qualified Institutional Buyers.”
517
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
518
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.

                                                         215
granted, and any excess over and above the 20% of promoter’s holding shall be locked-in for a
period of one year.
(b) Wherever the contributions made by such entities had been locked-in for a period of six
months at the time of listing of shares of the Company on the Innovators Growth Platform, and
the company is desirous of migrating to the regular trade category of the main board after
completion of listing on the Innovators Growth Platform for one year, such period shall be
deducted from the stipulated lock-in requirement of three years and one year, as may be
applicable.
(c) The condition of lock in would not apply to a Company which has been listed on the
Innovators Growth Platform for a minimum period of three years or more.]

                                          519
                                                [ CHAPTER X-A

                                   SOCIAL STOCK EXCHANGE
Definitions.

292A In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,—

               (a) “draft fund raising document” means the draft fund raising document filed with a
                   Social Stock Exchange in relation to a public issue of Zero Coupon Zero
                   Principal Instruments by a Not for Profit Organization registered with the Social
                   Stock Exchange;

               (b) “final fund raising document” means the final fund raising document filed with
                   the Social Stock Exchange pursuant to incorporation of observations issued in
                   respect of the draft fund raising document by the Social Stock Exchange;

               (c) “For Profit Social Enterprise” means a company or a body corporate operating
                  for profit, which is a Social Enterprise for the purposes of these regulations and
                  does not include a company incorporated under section 8 of the Companies Act,
                  2013 (18 of 2013);

               (d) “fund raising document” means the draft fund raising document and the final
                   fund raising document;

               (e) “Not for Profit Organization” means a Social Enterprise which is any of the
                   following entities:
                     (i) a charitable trust registered under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of 1882);



519
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 25.7.2022.

                                                    216
                      (ii) a charitable trust registered under the public trust statute of the relevant
                               state;
                      (iii)a charitable society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860
                               (21 of 1860);
                      (iv) a company incorporated under section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of
                               2013);
                      (v) any other entity as may be specified by the Board;

                (f) “Social 520[Impact Assessor]” means an individual registered with a self-
                    regulatory organization under the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or
                    such other agency, as may be specified by the Board, who has qualified a
                    certification program conducted by National Institute of Securities Market and
                    holds a valid certificate;

                (g) “Social 521[Impact Assessment] Firm” means any entity which has employed
                    Social 522[Impact Assessor(s)] and has a track record of minimum three years for
                    conducting social impact assessment;

                (h) “Social Enterprise” means either a Not for Profit Organization or a For Profit
                    Social Enterprise that meets the eligibility criteria specified in this Chapter;

                (i) “Social Stock Exchange” means a separate segment of a recognized stock
                    exchange having nationwide trading terminals permitted to register Not for
                    Profit Organizations and / or list the securities issued by Not for Profit
                    Organizations in accordance with provisions of these regulations.

Applicability of the Chapter.

292B The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to:
       (a) a Not for Profit Organization seeking to only get registered with a Social Stock
           Exchange;
       (b) a Not for Profit Organization seeking to get registered and raise funds through a
           Social Stock Exchange;
       (c) a For Profit Social Enterprise seeking to be identified as a Social Enterprise under
           the provisions of this Chapter.

Access to Social Stock Exchange.




520
    Substituted for the word “Auditor” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023.
521
    Substituted for the word “Audit” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023.
522
    Substituted for the word “Auditors” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023.

                                                        217
292C       A Social Stock Exchange shall be accessible 523[***] to institutional investors 524[,] non-
           institutional investors 525[and retail investors] 526[.]
           527
               [***]

Social Stock Exchange Governing Council.

292D (1) Every Social Stock Exchange shall constitute a Social Stock Exchange Governing
       Council to have an oversight on its functioning.

           (2) The composition and terms of reference for such Governing Council shall be
           specified by the Board from time to time.

 Eligibility conditions for being identified as a Social Enterprise.

 292E (1) For the purposes of these regulations, a Not for Profit Organization or a For Profit
        Social Enterprise, to be identified as a Social Enterprise, shall establish primacy of its
        social intent.

           (2) In order to establish the primacy of its social intent, such Social Enterprise shall
           meet the following eligibility criteria:-
                (a) the Social Enterprise shall be indulged in at least one of the following
                    activities:
                    (i)     eradicating hunger, poverty, malnutrition and inequality;
                    (ii) promoting health care including mental healthcare, sanitation and
                           making available safe drinking water;
                    (iii) promoting education, employability and livelihoods;
                    (iv) promoting gender equality, empowerment of women and LGBTQIA+
                           communities;
                    (v) ensuring environmental sustainability, addressing climate change
                           including mitigation and adaptation, forest and wildlife conservation;
                    (vi) protection of national heritage, art and culture;
                    (vii) training to promote rural sports, nationally recognised sports, Paralympic
                           sports and Olympic sports;
                    (viii) supporting incubators of Social Enterprises;



523
    The word “only” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023.
524
    Substituted for the word “and” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023.
525
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023.
526
    Substituted for the symbol “:” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023.
527
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under:
          “Provided that the Board may permit other class(es) of investors, as it deems fit, for the purpose of accessing
          Social Stock Exchange.”

                                                          218
                 (ix)    supporting other platforms that strengthen the non-profit ecosystem in
                        fundraising and capacity building;
                 (x) promoting livelihoods for rural and urban poor including enhancing
                        income of small and marginal farmers and workers in the non-farm
                        sector;
                 (xi) slum area development, affordable housing and other interventions to
                        build sustainable and resilient cities;
                 (xii) disaster management, including relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction
                        activities;
                 (xiii) promotion of financial inclusion;
                 (xiv) facilitating access to land and property assets for disadvantaged
                        communities;
                 (xv) bridging the digital divide in internet and mobile phone access,
                        addressing issues of misinformation and data protection;
                 (xvi) promoting welfare of migrants and displaced persons;
                 (xvii) any other area as identified by the Board or Government of India from
                        time to time

              (b) the Social Enterprise shall target underserved or less privileged population
                  segments or regions recording lower performance in the development priorities
                  of central or state governments;

              (c) the Social Enterprise shall have at least 67% of its activities, qualifying as
                  eligible activities to the target population, to be established through one or
                  more of the following:
                  (i)    at least 67% of the immediately preceding 3-year average of revenues
                       comes from providing eligible activities to members of the target
                       population;
                  (ii) at least 67% of the immediately preceding 3-year average of expenditure
                       has been incurred for providing eligible activities to members of the target
                       population;
                  (iii) members of the target population to whom the eligible activities have
                       been provided constitute at least 67% of the immediately preceding 3-year
                       average of the total customer base and/or total number of beneficiaries.

         (3) Corporate foundations, political or religious organizations or activities, professional
         or trade associations, infrastructure and housing companies, except affordable housing,
         shall not be eligible to be identified as a Social Enterprise.

Requirements relating to registration for a Not for Profit Organization.

292F (1) A Not for Profit Organization shall mandatorily seek registration with a Social Stock
       Exchange before it raises funds through a Social Stock Exchange:
       Provided that a Not for Profit Organization may choose to register on a Social Stock
       Exchange and not raise funds through it.


                                               219
           (2) The minimum requirements for registration of a Not for Profit Organization on a
           Social Stock Exchange shall be specified by the Board from time to time.

           (3) The Social Stock Exchange may specify the eligibility requirements for registration
           of a Not for Profit Organization in addition to the minimum requirements specified by
           the Board.

Fund raising by Social Enterprises.

292G A Social Enterprise may raise funds through following means:-

           (a) a Not for Profit Organization may raise funds on a Social Stock Exchange through:

                      (i)     issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments to 528[eligible
                           investors] in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Chapter;
                      (ii) donations through Mutual Fund schemes as specified by the Board;
                      (iii) any other means as specified by the Board from time to time.

           (b) A For Profit Social Enterprise may raise funds through:

                      (i)     issuance of equity shares on the main board, SME platform or
                           innovators growth platform or equity shares issued to an Alternative
                           Investment Fund including a Social Impact Fund;
                      (ii) issuance of debt securities;
                      (iii) any other means as specified by the Board from time to time

                      Explanation.—Securities issued by For Profit Social Enterprises shall be listed
                      and traded under the applicable segment of the stock exchange with an
                      identifier stating that the scrip is that of a For Profit Social Enterprise and such
                      For Profit Social Enterprises shall meet the eligibility criteria for the main
                      board, SME Platform or innovators growth platform, as applicable, in addition
                      to the criteria provided in this Chapter.

Ineligibility for raising of funds.

292H       A Social Enterprise shall not be eligible to register or raise funds through a Social Stock
           Exchange or Stock Exchange, as the case may be:
            (a) if the Social Enterprise, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors or selling
            shareholders or trustees are debarred from accessing the securities market by the
            Board;


528
   Substituted for the words and symbol “institutional investors and/or non-institutional investors” by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2023
w.e.f. 21.12.2023.

                                                         220
             (b) if any of the promoters or directors or trustees of the Social Enterprise is a
             promoter or director of any other company or Social Enterprise which has been
             debarred from accessing the securities market by the Board;
             (c) if the Social Enterprise or any of its promoters or directors or trustees is a wilful
             defaulter or a fraudulent borrower;
             (d) if any of its promoters or directors or trustees is a fugitive economic offender;
             (e) if the Social Enterprise or any of its promoters or directors or trustees has been
             debarred from carrying out its activities or raising funds by the Ministry of Home
             Affairs or any other ministry of the Central Government or State Government or
             Charitable Commissioner or any other statutory body.

             Explanation.—The restrictions under clauses (a) and (b) above shall not apply to the
             persons or entities mentioned therein, who were debarred in the past by the Board and
             the period of debarment is already over as on the date of filing of application for
             registration with the Social Stock Exchange or filing of draft fund raising document or
             draft offer document, as may be applicable, with the Social Stock Exchange or the
             Stock Exchange or the Board.

 Issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments

  292I (1) Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments shall be issued only by a Not for Profit
         Organization registered on a Social Stock Exchange and shall have a specific tenure.

           (2) Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments shall be issued without any coupon and no
           principal amount shall be payable on its maturity.

 Eligibility for issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments.

 292J (1) A Social Enterprise which is a Not for Profit Organization registered with a Social
        Stock Exchange may make an issue of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments and list
        them on such Social Stock Exchange.

          (2) The Not for Profit Organization may issue Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments
          only for a specific project or activity to be completed within a duration specified in the
          fund raising document:
          Provided that the specific project or activity falls under the list of eligible activities
          specified under regulation 292E of these regulations

 Procedure for public issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments by a Not for
 Profit Organization

 529[




529
  Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 292K read as under:

                                                       221
 292K . The procedure and other conditions in respect of public issuance of Zero Coupon Zero
        Principal Instruments by a Not for Profit Organization shall be as specified by the
        Board.]

 Procedure for private issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments by a Not for
 Profit Organization

 292L (1) The Not for Profit Organization registered on a Social Stock Exchange, may also make
        private issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments to Social Impact Fund(s)
        registered under the applicable provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of
        India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations 2012.

           (2) The provisions related to public issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments
           specified in this Chapter shall mutatis mutandis apply to private issuance of Zero
           Coupon Zero Principal Instruments to Social Impact Fund(s).

Contents of the fund raising document.
530
    [
292M The contents of the fund raising document shall be as specified by the Board.]

Other conditions relating to issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments


        “292K (1) A Not for Profit Organization shall file the draft fund raising document with the Social Stock
        Exchange where it is registered along with the fees as specified by the Social Stock Exchange and an
        application seeking in-principle approval for listing of its Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments on the
        Social Stock Exchange:
        Provided that Social Stock Exchange shall specify the details to be incorporated in the fund raising
        document:
        Provided further that the Board shall specify the minimum disclosure requirements in respect of the fund
        raising document from time to time.

        (2) The draft fund raising document shall be made available on the website of the Social Stock Exchange and
        the Not for Profit Organization for a period of at least 21 days for public comments.

        (3) The Social Stock Exchange shall provide its observation on the draft fund raising document to the Not
        for Profit Organization, within 30 days from the filing of the draft fund raising document or receipt of
        clarification, if any, sought by the Social Stock Exchange from Not for Profit Organization, whichever is
        later.

          (4) The Not for Profit Organization shall incorporate the observations of the Social Stock Exchange in draft
          fund raising document and file the final fund raising document with the Social Stock Exchange prior to
          opening the issue.”
530
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 292M read as under:

        “292M (1) The draft fund raising document and the final fund raising document shall contain all material
        disclosures which are true and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed decision.

        (2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the draft fund raising document and the final
        fund raising document shall contain disclosures as may be specified by the Board from time to time:
        Provided that the Social Stock Exchange may specify additional disclosures in respect of the draft fund
        raising document and the final fund raising document.”



                                                        222
531
      [***]

 Deemed compliance with Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.

292O          The public issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments by a registered Not for
              Profit Organization in accordance with these regulations shall be deemed to be in
              compliance with rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.

 Termination of listing of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments from the Social Stock
 Exchange.

292P The listing of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments of a Not for Profit Organization on
      the Social Stock Exchange shall terminate in the following events:
       (a) The object for which the funds were raised has been achieved and a certificate to this
           effect is submitted to the Social Stock Exchange; or
       (b) The tenure to achieve the object for which the funds were raised as provided in the
           fund raising document has expired.]


                                          CHAPTER XI - BONUS ISSUE
Conditions for a bonus issue
293. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 or any other applicable law, a listed
issuer shall be eligible to 532[announce its bonus issue and] issue bonus shares to its members if:


531
  Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 21.12.2023. Prior to the omission, Regulation 29N read as under:

              “292N (1) Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments shall be issued in dematerialized form only.

                (2) The minimum issue size shall be rupees one crore.

                (3) The minimum application size shall be rupees two lakhs.

                (4) The minimum subscription required to be achieved shall be 75% of the funds proposed to be raised
                through issuance of Zero Coupon Zero Principal Instruments.

                (5) In case of any under subscription, the Not for Profit Organization shall, in the fund raising document,
                provide details on the following:

                (a) manner of raising balance capital in case of such under subscription between 75% and 100%;
                (b) possible impact on achieving the social objective(s) in case such under subscription is not arranged:
                Provided that the funds shall be refunded in case the subscription is less than 75% of the issue size

                (6) The Social Stock Exchange shall maintain the details of the allotment pursuant to issuance of Zero
                Coupon Zero Principal Instruments by a Not for Profit Organization.

                (7) The Social Stock Exchange shall specify the additional norms in respect of issue procedure including
                on agreements with depositories, banks, etc., ASBA related matters, duration for public issuance,
                allocation methodology and any other ancillary matter related to issue procedure.”




                                                             223
      a)    it is authorised by its articles of association for issue of bonus shares, capitalisation of
            reserves, etc.:
            Provided that if there is no such provision in the articles of association, the issuer shall pass
            a resolution at its general body meeting making provisions in the articles of associations for
            capitalisation of reserve;
533
      [aa) it has received approval from the stock exchanges for listing and trading of all the securities,
            excluding options granted to employees pursuant to an employee stock option scheme and
            convertibles securities, issued by the issuer prior to the issuance of bonus shares.]
      b)    it has not defaulted in payment of interest or principal in respect of fixed deposits or debt
            securities issued by it;
      c)    it has not defaulted in respect of the payment of statutory dues of the employees such as
            contribution to provident fund, gratuity and bonus;
      d)    any outstanding partly paid shares on the date of the allotment of the bonus shares, are made
            fully paid-up;
      e)    any of its promoters or directors is not a fugitive economic offender.




      Restrictions on a bonus issue
      294. (1) An issuer shall make a bonus issue of equity shares only if it has made reservation of equity
      shares of the same class in favour of the holders of outstanding compulsorily convertible debt
      instruments if any, in proportion to the convertible part thereof.
      (2)The equity shares so reserved for the holders of fully or partly compulsorily convertible debt
      instruments, shall be issued to the holder of such convertible debt instruments or warrants at the
      time of conversion of such convertible debt instruments, optionally convertible instruments,
      warrants, as the case may be, on the same terms or same proportion at which the bonus shares
      were issued.
      (3) A bonus issue shall be made only out of free reserves, securities premium account or capital
      redemption reserve account and built out of the genuine profits or securities premium collected in
      cash and reserves created by revaluation of fixed assets shall not be capitalised for this purpose.
      (4) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-regulation (3), bonus shares shall not be issued in
      lieu of dividends.



      532
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
      Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.
      533
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
      Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.

                                                            224
534
      [(5) If an issuer has issued SR equity shares to its promoters or founders, any bonus issue on the
SR equity shares shall carry the same ratio of voting rights compared to ordinary shares and the
SR equity shares issued in a bonus issue shall also be converted to equity shares having voting
rights same as that of ordinary equity shares along with existing SR equity shares.]
535
      [(6) The allotment of shares in a bonus issue shall be made only in the dematerialised form.]




Completion of a bonus issue
295. (1) An issuer, announcing a bonus issue after approval by its board of directors and not
requiring shareholders’ approval for capitalisation of profits or reserves for making the bonus
issue, shall implement the bonus issue within fifteen days from the date of approval of the issue
by its board of directors:
Provided that where the issuer is required to seek shareholders’ approval for capitalisation of
profits or reserves for making the bonus issue, the bonus issue shall be implemented within two
months from the date of the meeting of its board of directors wherein the decision to announce the
bonus issue was taken subject to shareholders’ approval.
Explanation: For the purpose of a bonus issue to be considered as ‘implemented’ the date of
commencement of trading shall be considered.
(2) A bonus issue, once announced, shall not be withdrawn.



                                              536[CHAPTER XI-A

             POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS

Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
295A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any
of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve
months, for furthering innovation 537[***] relating to testing new products, processes, services,
business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.




534
     Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.
535
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.
536
    Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulation, w.e.f. 17-04-2020.
537
     The words “in technological aspects” is omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021 w-e-f- 03-08-2021.

                                                      225
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant
satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied
with on a continuous basis.
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing
environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a
limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the
securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.]


                                CHAPTER XII - MISCELLANEOUS


Directions by the Board
296. Without prejudice to the power under sections 11, 11A, 11B, 11D, sub-section (3) of section
12, Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act, the Board may either suo motu or on receipt of
information or on completion or pendency of any inspection, inquiry or investigation, in the
interests of investors or the securities market, issue such directions or orders as it deems fit
including any or all of the following:
a)    directing the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a specified period;
b)    directing the person concerned to sell or divest the securities;
c)    any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case:
Provided that the Board shall, either before or after issuing such direction or order, give a
reasonable opportunity of being heard to the person concerned:
Provided further that if any interim direction or order is required to be issued, the Board may give
post-decisional hearing to the person concerned.


Liability for contravention of the Act, rules or the regulations
297. (1) The listed issuer or any other person thereof who contravenes any of the provisions of
these regulations, shall, in addition to the liability for action in terms of the securities laws, be
liable for the following actions by the respective stock exchange(s), in the manner specified by the
Board:
     (a) imposition of fines;
     (b) suspension of trading;
     (c) freezing of promoter/promoter group holding of designated securities, as may be
         applicable in coordination with depositories;
     (d) any other action as may be specified by the Board from time to time.



                                                 226
(2) The manner of revocation of actions specified in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-regulation (1),
shall be in the manner specified by the Board.


Failure to pay fine
298. If the listed issuer fails to pay any fine imposed upon it by the recognised stock exchange(s),
within the period as specified from time to time, the stock exchange may initiate such other action
in accordance with the bye-laws of such Stock Exchange after giving a notice in writing.


Power to remove difficulty
299. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations,
the Board may issue clarifications through guidance notes or circulars after recording reasons in
writing.


Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations
300. (1) The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities
market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is
satisfied that:
a)      the requirement is procedural in nature; or
b)      any disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular class of industry or issuer; or
c)      the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer.
(2) For seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (1), an application, giving details and the grounds
on which such relaxation has been sought, shall be filed with the Board.
538
      [(3) The application referred to under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee of rupees one lakh payable by way of direct credit into the bank account through
NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other mode as
may be specified by the Board from time to time.]


Repeal and Savings
301. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations 2009 shall stand rescinded.


538
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 01.04.2023. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows:
 “(3) The application referred to under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of rupees one
lakh payable by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS or any other mode
allowed by RBI or by way of a demand draft in favour of the Board payable in Mumbai.”



                                                        227
(2) Notwithstanding such rescission:
a)    anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including
      observation made in respect of any draft offer document, any enquiry or investigation
      commenced or show cause notice issued in respect of the said Regulations shall be deemed
      to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations.
b)    any offer document, whether draft or otherwise, filed or application made to the Board under
      the said Regulations and pending before it shall be deemed to have been filed or made under
      the corresponding provisions of these regulations.


            SCHEDULE I – LEAD MANAGERS’ INTER-SE ALLOCATION OF
                                         RESPONSIBILITIES
                      [See regulations 23(2), 539[*] 121(2), 184(2) and 245(2)]


(1)   The lead manager(s) shall prepare a schedule, listing the activity-wise allocation of
      responsibilities relating to the issue, the name of the lead manager responsible for each set
      of activities or sub-activities, and disclose the same in the offer document.
(2)   Where circumstances warrant the joint and several responsibility of the lead manager(s) for
      any particular activity, a co-ordinator designated from amongst the lead manager(s)
      (hereinafter referred to as the “designated lead manager”) shall furnish to the Board, when
      called for, information, report, rationales, etc. on matters relating to such activity.
(3)   The activities and sub-activities may be grouped on the following lines:
      (a)    Capital structuring with the relative components and formalities such as composition
             of debt and equity, type of instruments, etc.
      (b)    Drafting and design of the offer document, application form and abridged prospectus,
             and of the advertisement or publicity material including newspaper advertisements.
      (c)    Selection of various intermediaries/agencies connected with the issue, such as
             registrars to the issue, printers, advertising agencies, bankers to the issue, collection
             centres as per schedule XII, etc.
      (d)    Marketing of the issue, which shall cover, inter alia, formulating marketing strategies,
             preparation of publicity budget, arrangements for selection of (i) media, (ii) centres
             for holding conferences of media, stock brokers, investors, etc., (iii) brokers to the
             issue, and (iv) underwriters and underwriting arrangement, quantum and distribution



539
   The number and symbols “69(2)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                    228
              of publicity and issue material including offer documents, application form and
              abridged prospectus.
      (e)     Post-issue activities, including essential follow-up with bankers to the issue and self
              certified syndicate banks to get quick estimates of subscription and advising the issuer
              about the closure of the issue, finalisation of the basis of allotment after weeding out
              multiple applications, listing of instruments, despatch of certificates or demat credit
              and refunds/unblocking and co-ordination with various agencies connected with the
              post-issue activity such as registrars to the issue, bankers to the issue, self certified
              syndicate banks and underwriters.
(4)   The designated lead manager shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with these
      regulations and other requirements and formalities specified by the Registrar of Companies,
      the Board and the stock exchanges.
(5)   The designated lead manager shall be responsible for ensuring that all intermediaries fulfil
      their obligations and functions as specified in their agreements with the issuer.
(6)   In case of under-subscription in an issue, the lead manager responsible for underwriting
      arrangements shall be responsible for invoking underwriting obligations and ensuring that
      the notice for devolvement containing the obligations of the underwriters is issued in terms
      of these regulations.


 SCHEDULE II - CONTENTS OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN LEAD MANAGER(S) AND
                                                   ISSUER
                      [See regulations 23(5), 540[**] 121(5), 184 (1) and 245(5)]


The agreement between the issuer and the lead manager(s) may contain various clauses governing
their relationship with respect to the issue, including the following:


(1)   Representation by the issuer to include representations in respect of the following matters:
                                                                                                   541
      a) Compliance with all statutory formalities under these regulations,                              [***] the
            Companies Act, 2013, as applicable and other conditions, instructions and advices issued
            by the Board and other relevant statutes relating to an issue.




540
    The numbers and symbols “69(2), 71(2)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
541
    The words, numbers and symbols “the Companies Act, 1956 and/ or” omitted by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                      229
      b) All statements made in the draft offer document 542[***] and the offer document shall be
           complete in all respects and shall be true and correct.


(2)    Covenants by the issuer shall include covenants in respect of the following matters:
      a) All necessary information shall be made available to the lead manager(s) and under no
           circumstances, the issuer shall neither give nor withhold any information which is likely
           to mislead the investors.
      b) All documents to enable the lead manager(s) to corroborate the information given in the
           draft offer document 543[**] have been provided.
      c) All necessary facilities shall be extended by the issuer to the lead manager(s) to interact
           on any matter relevant to the issue with the solicitors or legal advisors, auditors,
           consultants, advisors to the issue, public financial institutions, scheduled commercial
           banks or any other organisation and any other intermediary associated with the issue.
      d) Details and particulars of statutory compliances which have to be fulfilled before the
           issue.


(3)    The issuer shall ensure that all advertisements released in connection with the issue conform
       to these regulations and the instructions given by the lead manager(s) from time to time and
       that it shall not make any misleading or incorrect statement in any public communication or
       publicity material       including corporate, and issue advertisements of the issuer. The
       interviews by the issuer’s promoters, directors, duly authorized employees or
       representatives of the issuer, documentaries about the issuer or its promoters, periodical
       reports and press releases issued by the issuer or research report made by the issuer, any
       intermediary connected with the issue or their associates or at any press, stock brokers’ or
       investors’ conferences, shall also conform to these regulations .


(4)    The issuer shall appoint other intermediaries (except self certified syndicate banks) and
       other persons associated with the issue only with the prior consent of the lead manager(s).


(5)    The issuer shall, whenever required and wherever applicable, in consultation with the lead
       manager, enter into an agreement with the intermediaries associated with the issue, clearly



542
    The words “or the draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
543
    The words “or the draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                       230
      setting forth their mutual rights, responsibilities and obligations. A certified true copy of
      such agreements shall be furnished to the lead manager.


(6)   The issuer shall take such steps as are necessary to ensure completion of allotment and
      despatch of letters of allotment/credit to demat accounts and refund orders/unblocking of
      funds to the applicants within the prescribed time.


(7)   The issuer shall take steps to pay fees, underwriting commission, brokerage to the
      underwriters, stock brokers, SCSBs, registered intermediaries, lead manager(s) etc. within
      the time specified in the agreement with such intermediaries or within a reasonable time.


(8)   The issuer undertakes to furnish such information and details regarding the issue as may be
      required by the lead manager(s), to enable them to file a report with the Board or place it on
      their websites.


(9)   The issuer shall keep the lead manager(s) informed if it encounters any problem due to
      dislocation of communication system or any other material adverse circumstance which is
      likely to prevent or which has prevented the issuer from complying with its obligations,
      whether statutory or contractual, in respect of the matters pertaining to allotment, despatch
      of certificate, demat credit, making refunds/ unblocking of funds, share/debenture
      certificates etc.


(10) The issuer shall not resort to any legal proceedings in respect of any matter having a bearing
      on the issue except in consultation with and after receipt of advice from the lead manager(s).


(11) The issuer shall refund/unblock the monies of the applicants, if required to do so for any
      reason such as failing to get listing permission or under any direction or order of the Board.
      The issuer shall pay requisite interest amount if so required under the laws or direction or
      order of the Board.


(12) The agreement shall specify any offer related rights of lead manager(s) with respect to the
      issuer.


(13) The agreement shall specify the grounds for breach of the agreement and consequences of
      any breach.

                                                231
SCHEDULE III - FEES TO BE PAID ALONG WITH DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT/ 544[*]
                               LETTER OF OFFER OR OFFER DOCUMENT


      [See regulations 25(1), 25(6) 545{59C (1), 59E (2), 59E (3)}, 546[71(9),] 123(1), 123(6), 156(1),
                                      186(5), 220(1), 287(1) and 288(1)]


(1)     In respect of every draft offer document, offer document in case of a fast track issue and
        547
              [*] letter of offer as also in cases of updation of any draft offer document, fees at the rate
        as specified below, shall be payable to the Board.
(2)     The fees shall be paid in advance by way of direct credit in the Board’s bank
                                                              548
        account       through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or                     [online payment using the SEBI payment
        gateway or any other mode as may be specified by the Board from time to time].


        (a)      Public issue:
                  Size    of    the   issue, Amount / Rate of fees               549[Amount / Rate of fees for


                  including       intended                                       filing within one year after
                  retention              of                                      expiry of SEBI Observation
                  oversubscription                                               letter
                  Less than or equal to A flat charge of one lakh A                    flat    charge     of    fifty
                  ten crore rupees.           rupees ( 1,00,000/-).              thousand rupees ( 50,000/-).
                  More than ten crore 0.1 per cent. of the issue 0.05 per cent of the issue size.
                  rupees, but less than or size.
                  equal to five thousand
                  crore rupees.


544
    The word “DRAFT” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
545
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.
546
     Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the numbers and symbols “71(1), 71(6), 100(1),”.
547
     The word “draft” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
548
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 01.04.2023 for the words “any other mode allowed by RBI or by means of a demand
draft drawn in favour of ‘the Securities and Exchange Board of India’ payable at the place of office of the Board, in
terms of Schedule IV, where the draft offer document or offer document or updated draft offer document, as the case
may be, is filed.”
549
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w-e-f-
01.04.2019.

                                                        232
               More        than        five Five         crore       rupees Two crore fifty lakh rupees
               thousand crore rupees.        ( 5,00,00,000/-) plus 0.025 ( 2,50,00,000/-) plus 0.0125
                                             per cent. of the portion of per cent. of the portion of the
                                             the issue size in excess of issue size in excess of five
                                             five thousand crore rupees thousand               crore        rupees
                                             ( 5000,00,00,000/-).              ( 5000,00,00,000/-).]


              550[Size of the issue,       Amount / Rate of fees   Amount / Rate of fees for
              including intended                                   filing within one year after
              retention of                                         expiry of SEBI Observation
              oversubscription                                     letter
              Less than or equal to    A flat charge of fifty A flat charge of twenty five
              ten crore rupees.        thousand rupees (50,000/-). thousand rupees (25,000/-).
              More than ten crore      0.05 per cent. of the issue 0.025 per cent of the issue
              rupees, but less than or size.                       size.
              equal to five thousand
              crore rupees.
              More than five           Two crore fifty lakh rupees One crore twenty five lakh
              thousand crore rupees. (2,50,00,000/-) plus 0.0125 rupees (1,25,,00,000/-) plus
                                       per cent. of the portion of 0.00625 per cent. of the
                                       the issue size in excess of portion of the issue size in
                                       five thousand crore rupees excess of five thousand crore
                                       (5000,00,00,000/-).         rupees (5000,00,00,000/-).]



      (b)    Rights issue:


                   Size of the issue,          Amount / Rate of fees          551[***]


                 including intended
                      retention of
                  oversubscription



550
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 for the
period from 01.06.2020 to 31.12.2020.
551
    Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
08.04.2025. Prior to the omission, the column read as under:
“
        Amount / Rate of fees for filing within one year after expiry of SEBI Observation letter
        A flat charge of twenty five thousand rupees (₹25,000/-).
        0.025 per cent of the issue size.

                                                                                                        ”

                                                      233
               Less than or equal to          A flat charge of fifty
               ten crore rupees               thousand rupees
                                              ( 50,000/-).
               More than ten crore            0.05 per cent. of the issue
               rupees                         size.



                552[Size of the issue,           Amount / Rate of fees               Amount / Rate of fees
                                                                                     for filing within one
                including intended
                                                                                     year after expiry of
                retention of                                                         SEBI      Observation
                                                                                     letter
                oversubscription
                Less than or equal to ten        A flat charge of twenty five A flat charge of twelve
                                                                              thousand five hundred
                crore rupees#                    thousand rupees
                                                                              rupees (12,500/-).
                                                 (25,000/-).
                More than ten crore              0.025 per cent. of the issue 0.0125 per cent of the
                                                                              issue size.]
                rupees#                          size.
                # to be read as twenty-five crores with effect from April 21, 2020




      (c)    Listing without a public issue:


                  Paid-up capital of the entity                            Amount / Rate of fees


               Less than or equal to ten crore              A flat charge of one lakh rupees
               rupees.                                      ( 1,00,000/-).
               More than ten crore rupees, but              0.1 per cent. of the paid-up capital
               less than or equal to five thousand
               crore rupees.
               More than five thousand crore                Five crore rupees ( 5,00,00,000/-) plus 0.025



552
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 for the
period from 01.06.2020 to 31.12.2020.

                                                       234
               rupees.                                    per cent. of the portion of the paid-up capital in
                                                          excess of five thousand crore rupees
                                                          ( 5000,00,00,000/-).




      (d)    Updation of an offer document:


                                                                        Amount / Rate of fees


               Where updations or changes are Ten thousand rupees (`10,000/-) for updations
               made in any of the sections or changes per section, subject to total fee not
               specified in Para 2 of Schedule exceeding one fourth (1/4th) of the filing fees
               XVI of these regulations                   paid at the time of filing the draft document
                                                          with the Board or fifty thousand rupees (`
                                                          50,000/-), whichever is higher.


NOTES


(1)   Where the issue size is not determinable at the time of submission of the draft offer
      document or the offer document in case of a fast track issue, the issuer shall pay fees
      mentioned at para (2), based on the estimated issue size.


(2)   If the issue size estimated by the issuer differs from the eventual issue size and thereby:–
      (a)    the fees paid by the issuer is deficient, the balance fee shall be paid by the issuer
             within seven days of finalisation of the basis of allotment; or
      (b)    the fees paid by the issuer is in excess, excess fee shall be refunded by the Board to
             the issuer.


         SCHEDULE IV – FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS WITH THE BOARD
                   [See regulations: 25(1) 553{59C (1)}, 554[71(3)], 123(1), 186(1)]




553
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.
554
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025 for the numbers and symbols “71(1)”.

                                                      235
555
      [(1)] Draft offer documents/ letters of offer/ offer documents shall be filed by the lead manager(s) 556[
             at the Head Office of the Board, situated at: SEBI Head Office, SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A,
             “G” Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai –400051.]
557
      [(2) In case of Rights Issue, the issuer shall file the letter of offer with the Board at its Head Office in
             the address given at clause (1) above.]


                     SCHEDULE V - FORMATS OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATES

        Form A - Format of due diligence certificate to be given by the lead manager(s) along with
                                              draft offer document 558[***]


             [See regulations 25(2)(b) 559{59C (4), 59C (13)}, 560[**] 123(2)(b), 156(2)(a) and 247(2)]


       To,
       Securities and Exchange Board of India


       Dear Sirs,


             Sub.: Public 561[*] Issue of ………………… by………………………. (Name of the issuer)


       We confirm that:


       (1)     We have examined various documents including those relating to litigation, including
               commercial disputes, patent disputes, disputes with collaborators, etc. and other material while
               finalising the offer document of the subject issue;


       555
            Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
       556
           Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
       Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022, for the words “with the relevant office of the Board under the
       jurisdiction of which the registered office of the issuer company is located, based on the estimated issue size as
       may be specified by the Board from time to time”
       557
            Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
       558
           The words “or draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
       Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
       559
           Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
       Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.
       560
           The letters, numbers and symbols “71(2)(b), 100(2)(a),” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India
       (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
       561
           The word and symbol “/ Rights” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
       Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                              236
(2)   On the basis of such examination and discussions with the issuer, its directors and other
      officers, other agencies, and independent verification of the statements concerning the objects
      of the issue, price justification, contents of the documents and other papers furnished by the
      issuer, we confirm that:
      (a)    the draft offer document 562[**] filed with the Board is in conformity with the
             documents, materials and papers which are material to the issue;
      (b)    all material legal requirements relating to the issue as specified by the Board, the Central
             Government and any other competent authority in this behalf have been duly complied
             with; and
      (c)    the material disclosures made in the draft offer document 563[**] are true and adequate to
             enable the investors to make a well informed decision as to the investment in the
             proposed issue and such disclosures are in accordance with the requirements of the
             Companies Act, 2013, these regulations and other applicable legal requirements.
(3)   Besides ourselves, all intermediaries named in the draft offer document 564[**] are registered
      with the Board and that till date, such registration is valid.
(4)   We have satisfied ourselves about the capability of the underwriters to fulfil their underwriting
      commitments.
(5)   Written consent from the promoters has been obtained for inclusion of their specified
      securities as part of the promoters’ contribution subject to lock-in and the specified
      securities proposed to form part of the promoters’ contribution subject to lock-in shall not be
      disposed or sold or transferred by the promoters during the period starting from the date of
      filing the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer with the Board till the date of
      commencement of lock-in period as stated in the draft offer document 565[**].
(6)   All applicable provisions of these regulations, which relate to specified securities ineligible for
      computation of promoters’ contribution, have been and shall be duly complied with and
      appropriate disclosures as to compliance with the said regulation(s) have been made in the
      draft offer document.
(7)   All applicable provisions of these regulations which relate to                   receipt of promoters’’
      contribution prior to opening of the issue , shall be complied with. Arrangements have been


562
    The words and symbol “/ draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
563
    The words and symbol “/ draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
564
    The words and symbol “/ draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
565
    The words and symbol “/ draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                      237
         made to ensure that the promoters’ contribution shall be received at least one day before the
         opening of the issue and that the auditors’ certificate to this effect shall be duly submitted to
         the Board. We further confirm that arrangements have been made to ensure that the
         promoters’ contribution shall be kept in an escrow account with a scheduled commercial
         bank and shall be released to the issuer along with the proceeds of the issue.
(8)      Necessary arrangements shall be made to ensure that the monies received pursuant to the
         issue are credited or transferred to in a separate bank account as per the provisions of sub-
         section (3) of section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013 and that such monies shall be released
         by the said bank only after permission is obtained from all the stock exchanges, and that the
         agreement entered into between the bankers to the issue and the issuer specifically contains
         this condition.
(9)      The existing business as well as any new business of the issuer for which the funds are
         being raised fall within the ‘main objects’ in the object clause of the Memorandum of
         Association or other charter of the issuer and that the activities which have been carried in
         the last ten years are valid in terms of the object clause of the Memorandum of Association.
566
      [****]
567
      [(10)] Following disclosures have been made in the draft offer document 568[**]:
         (a)   An undertaking from the issuer that at any given time, there shall be only one
               denomination for the equity shares of the issuer 569[, excluding SR equity shares,
               where an issuer has outstanding SR equity shares], and
         (b)   An undertaking from the issuer that it shall comply with all disclosure and accounting
               norms specified by the Board.
570
      [(11)] We shall comply with the regulations pertaining to advertisements in terms of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2018.
571
      [(12)] If applicable, the entity is eligible to list on the 572[innovators growth platform] in terms
of the provisions of Chapter X of these regulations.


566
    Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f.
26.12.2019. Prior to its omission, clause (10) read as follows,-
          “(10) In case of a rights issue disclosure has been made in the draft letter of offer that investors shall be
          given an option to receive the shares in demat or physical mode”
567
    Clause 11 re-numbered by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment)
Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 26.12.2019.
568
    The words and symbol “/ draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
569
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.
570
    Clause 12 re-numbered by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment)
Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 26.12.2019.

                                                         238
       573
             {[****]}
We enclose a note explaining the process of due diligence that has been exercised by us including in
relation to the business of the issuer, the risks in relation to the business, experience of the promoters
and that the related party transactions entered into for the period disclosed in the offer document have
been entered into by the issuer in accordance with applicable laws.


We enclose a checklist confirming regulation-wise compliance with the applicable provisions of
these regulations, containing details such as the regulation number, its text, the status of
compliance, page number of the draft offer document 574[**] where the regulation has been
complied with and our comments, if any.


 Place:                                                                            Lead Manager(s) to the Issue
 Date:                                                                                        with Official Seal(s)


575[**]




  576[Form AA - Format of due diligence certificate to be given by the lead manager(s) along


                                  with the pre-filed draft offer document
                                              [See regulation 59A]


To,
Securities and Exchange Board of India


Dear Sirs,

571
    Clause 11 re-numbered by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment)
Regulations, 2019 w.e.f. 26.12.2019.
572
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “institutional trading
platform”.
573
    Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2019 w.e.f.
26.12.2019. Prior to its omission, the omitted provison read as follows,-
       “[*The option to receive physical security certificates in a rights issue shall be available only for a period of
       six months from the date of coming into force of these regulations.]”
574
    The words and symbol “/ draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
575
    Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
08.04.2025. Prior to the omission, the Note read as under:

          “Note:
           The requirements in items 5, 6, 7 are not applicable in case of a rights issue.”
576
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.

                                                         239
Sub.: Public Issue of ………………… by………………………. (Name of the issuer)


We confirm that:


(1) We have examined various documents including those relating to litigation, commercial
disputes, patent disputes, disputes with collaborators, etc. and other material while finalising the
pre-filed draft offer document of the subject issue;
(2) On the basis of such examination and discussions with the issuer, its directors and other
officers, other agencies, and independent verification of the statements concerning the objects of
the issue, price justification, contents of the documents and other papers furnished by the issuer,
we confirm that:
 (a) the pre-filed draft offer document is in conformity with the documents, materials and papers
      which are material to the issue;
 (b) all material legal requirements relating to the issue as specified by the Board, the Central
      Government and any other competent authority in this behalf have been duly complied with;
      and
 (c) the material disclosures made in the pre-filed draft offer document are true and adequate to
      enable the investors to make a well informed decision as to the investment in the proposed
      issue and such disclosures are in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act,
      2013, these regulations and other applicable legal requirements.
(3) Besides us, all intermediaries named in the pre-filed draft offer document are registered with
the Board and till date; such registration is valid.
(4) We have satisfied ourselves about the capability of the underwriters to fulfil their underwriting
commitments.
(5) Written consent from the promoters has been obtained for inclusion of their specified
securities as part of the promoters’ contribution subject to lock-in and the specified securities
proposed to form part of the promoters’ contribution that are subject to lock-in shall not be
disposed or sold or transferred by the promoters during the period starting from the date of pre-
filing the draft offer document with the Board till the date of commencement of lock-in period as
stated in the draft offer document.
(6) All applicable provisions of these regulations, which relate to specified securities ineligible for
computation of promoters’ contribution, have been and/or shall be duly complied with and
appropriate disclosures as to compliance with the said regulation(s) have been made in the pre-
filed draft offer document.

                                                  240
(7) All applicable provisions of these regulations which relate to receipt of promoters’’
contribution prior to opening of the issue, shall be complied with. Arrangements have been made
to ensure that the promoters’ contribution shall be received at least one day before the opening of
the issue and that the auditors’ certificate to this effect shall be duly submitted to the Board. We
further confirm that arrangements have been made to ensure that the promoters’ contribution shall
be kept in an escrow account with a scheduled commercial bank and shall be released to the issuer
along with the proceeds of the issue.
(8) Necessary arrangements shall be made to ensure that the monies received pursuant to the issue
are credited or transferred to in a separate bank account as per the provisions of sub-section (3) of
section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013 and that such monies shall be released by the said bank
only after permission is obtained from all the stock exchanges, and that the agreement entered into
between the bankers to the issue and the issuer specifically contains this condition.
(9) The existing business as well as any new business of the issuer for which the funds are being
raised fall within the ‘main objects’ in the Object Clause of the Memorandum of Association or
other Charter of the issuer and that the activities which have been carried in the last ten years are
valid in terms of the object clause of the Memorandum of Association.
(10) Following disclosures have been made in the pre-filed draft offer document:
 (a) An undertaking from the issuer that at any given time, there shall be only one denomination
      for the equity shares of the issuer, excluding SR equity shares, where an issuer has
      outstanding SR equity shares, and
 (b) An undertaking from the issuer that it shall comply with all disclosures and accounting
      norms specified by the Board.
(11) We shall comply with the regulations pertaining to advertisements in terms of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018.


We enclose a note explaining the process of due diligence that has been exercised by us including
in relation to the business of the issuer, the risks in relation to the business, experience of the
promoters and that the related party transactions entered into for the period disclosed in the offer
document have been entered into by the issuer in accordance with applicable laws.


We enclose a checklist confirming regulation-wise compliance with the applicable provisions of
these regulations, containing details such as the regulation number, its text, the status of
compliance, page number of the pre-filed draft offer document where the regulation has been
complied with and our comments, if any.



                                                241
 We also enclose plan of action for compliance with Regulation 8 and Regulation 15.


Place:                                                                   Lead Manager(s) to the Issue
Date:                                                                         with Official Seal(s)]


 Form B - Format of due diligence certificate to be given by the debenture trustee along with
                                            draft offer document


                   [See regulations 25(2)(c), 71(2)(c), 577[*] 123(2)(c) and 156(2)(b)]


 To,
 Securities and Exchange Board of India578[/ Stock Exchanges]


 Dear Sirs,


 Sub.: Public/Rights Issue of ……………………. by ……………………….. (Name of the issuer)


 We confirm that:


 (1)     We have examined all relevant documents pertaining to the said issue.
 (2)     We have examined the relevant documents pertaining to the security to be created.
 (3)     On the basis of discussions with the issuer, its directors and other officers, other
         agencies/intermediaries and on examination and independent verification of the various
         relevant documents, we confirm that:
 (a)     The issuer has made adequate provisions for and/or has taken steps to provide for adequate
         security or asset cover for the secured convertible debt instruments to be issued.
 (b)     The issuer has obtained the permissions or consents necessary for creating security on the
         property as second charge or pari pasu charge (wherever applicable)
 (c)     The issuer has made all relevant disclosures about the security or asset cover.
 (d)     The issuer has made all relevant disclosures about its continuing obligations towards the
         holders of convertible debt instruments.



 577
     The letter, numbers and symbols “100(2)(b),” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
 Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
 578
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
 (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                      242
       (e)    All disclosures made in the draft prospectus/letter of offer with respect to the
              convertible debt instruments are true, fair and adequate to enable the investors to
              make a well informed decision as to the investment in the proposed issue.
(4)   We have satisfied ourselves about the ability of the issuer to service the debt securities.




 Place:                                                                     Debenture Trustee to the Issue
 Date:                                                                                       with Official Seal


Note: With respect to the issue of unsecured convertible debt instruments, the debenture trustee
shall not be required to certify the requirements stated in item 2 and sub-item (a), (b) and (c) of
item 3 above.


 Form C - Format of due diligence certificate to be given by the lead manager(s) at the time
                                      of filing offer document579[***]
                      [See regulation25(9)(b) 580{59C (13)}581[***] and 123(9)(b)]




To,
Securities and Exchange Board of India


Dear Sirs,


Sub.: Public582[*] Issue of ……………….. by ……………………… (Name of the issuer)


We confirm that:




579
    The words and symbol “/ filing letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
580
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.
581
    The word, numerals and symbols “, 71(7)(b)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
582
    The word and symbol “/ Rights Issue of” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                       243
(1)      The offer document (in case of a public issue) filed with the Registrar of Companies 583[***]
         on …. (date) was suitably updated under intimation to the Board and that the said offer
         document 584[***] contains all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer as on the said
         date.
(2)      The registrations of all intermediaries named in the offer document or letter of offer are
         valid as on date and that none of these intermediaries have been debarred from functioning
         by any regulatory authority.
(3)      Written consent from the promoter(s) has been obtained for inclusion of their securities as
         part of promoters’ contribution, subject to lock-in.
(4)      The securities proposed to form part of the promoters’ contribution and subject to lock-in, have
         not been disposed or sold or transferred by the promoters during the period starting from the
         date of filing the draft offer document 585[or pre-filing offer document with the Board till date.]
(5)      Agreements have been entered into with the depositories for dematerialisation of the
         securities of the issuer.




 Place:                                                                         Lead Manager(s) to the Issue
 Date:                                                                                     with Official Seal(s)


586
      [***]


587[FORM CA - FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE


        LEAD MANAGER(S) AT THE TIME OF FILING THE UPDATED DRAFT RED
                                         HERRING PROSPECTUS-I
                                     [See regulation 59C (8) and 59C (13)]




583
    The words and symbols “/ letter of offer (in case of a rights issue) filed with the designated stock exchange”
omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
584
    The words “or letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
585
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022 for the words “with the Board till date”.
586
    Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f
08.04.2025. Prior to the omission, the Note read as under:

        “Note: The requirements in items 3 and 4 above are not applicable in case of a rights issue.”
587
  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.

                                                       244
To,
Securities and Exchange Board of India


Dear Sirs,
Sub.: Public/Rights Issue of ……………….. by ……………………… (Name of the issuer)
We confirm that:


(1) The updated draft red herring prospectus-I/updated draft red herring prospectus-II, as the case
may be, filed with the Board contains all the material disclosures in respect of the issuer as on the
said date.
(2) The registration of all intermediaries named in the offer document are valid as on date and that
none of these intermediaries have been debarred by any regulatory authority.
(3) Written consent from the promoter(s) has been obtained for inclusion of their securities as part
of promoters’ contribution, subject to lock-in.
(4) The securities proposed to form part of the promoters’ contribution and subject to lock-in,
have not been disposed or sold or transferred by the promoters during the period starting from the
date of filing the pre-filed draft offer document with the Board till date.
(5) Agreements have been entered into with the depositories for dematerialisation of the securities
of the issuer.


Place:                                                                Lead Manager(s) to the Issue
Date:                                                                           with Official Seal(s)]




Form D - Format of due diligence certificate to be given by the lead manager(s) in the event
                 of disclosure of material events after the filing of the offer document
                         [See regulation 25(9)(e) 588[*], 123(9)(e) and 186(3)(e)]


To,
Securities and Exchange Board of India


Dear Sirs,



  The word, numerals and symbols “, 71(7)(c)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
588

Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                    245
Sub.: Public589[*] Issue of …………………….. by ……………………. (Name of the issuer)


We confirm that all material disclosures in respect of the issuer as on date have been made
through the offer document (in case of a public issue) filed with the Registrar of Companies 590[***]
on ….. (date) read with subsequent amendments/ public notice dated …...... (Copy of the
advertisement enclosed).




 Place:                                                                        Lead Manager(s) to the Issue
 Date:                                                                                   with Official Seal(s)


591[FORM DA - FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE


      LEAD MANAGER(S) IN THE EVENT OF DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL EVENTS
                       AFTER THE FILING OF THE OFFER DOCUMENT
                                         [See regulation 59C (13)]
To,
Securities and Exchange Board of India


Dear Sirs,
Sub.: Public592[*] Issue of …………………….. by ……………………. (Name of the issuer)


We confirm that all material disclosures in respect of the issuer as on date have been made
through the pre-filed offer document filed with the Registrar of Companies on ….. (date) read
with subsequent amendments/public notice dated……………(copy of the advertisement
enclosed).


Place:                                                            Lead Manager(s) to the Issue with



589
    The word and symbol “/ Rights” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
590
    The words and symbols “/ letter of offer (in case of a rights issue) filed with the designated stock exchange”
omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
591
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.
592
    The word and symbol “/ Rights” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                      246
Date:                                                                                       Official Seal(s)]




  Form E - Additional confirmations/ certification to be given by the lead manager(s) in the
               due diligence certificate to be given along with the offer document593[***]
                                      [See regulation 594[***]156(2)(a)]


To,
Securities and Exchange Board of India


Dear Sirs,


Sub.: Public595[*] Issue of …………………….. by ……………………. (Name of the issuer)


We confirm that:


(1)     None of the intermediaries named in the offer document (in case of a public issue)596[***]
        have been debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority.
(2)     The issuer is eligible to make a fast track issue in terms of (597[***] regulation 155 in case of
        further public offers, as applicable) of these regulations. The fulfilment of the eligibility criteria
        as specified in that regulation by the issuer has also been disclosed in the offer
        document598[**].
(3)     The abridged prospectus 599[***] contains all disclosures as specified in these regulations.
(4)     All material disclosures in respect of the issuer have been made in the offer document
        600
              [***] and certify that any material development in the issuer or relating to the issue up to



593
    The word and symbol “/ letter of offer for a fast track issue” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
594
    The word, numbers and symbol “100(2)(a) and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
595
    The word and symbol “/ Rights” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
596
    The words and symbols “/letter of offer (in case of a rights issue)” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
597
    The words and numbers “regulation 99 in case of rights issues and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
598
    The words and symbol “/letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
599
    The words and symbol “/abridged letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                        247
        the commencement of listing and trading of the specified securities offered through this
        issue shall be informed through public notices/advertisements in all those newspapers in
        which pre-issue advertisement and advertisement for opening or closure of the issue have
        been given.
(5)     Agreements have been entered into with the depositories for dematerialisation of the
        specified securities of the issuer.




 Place:                                                                        Lead Manager(s) to the Issue
 Date:                                                                                    with Official Seal(s)




  Form F - Format of due diligence certificate to be given by the lead manager(s) along with
                                         the final post-issue report
                                     [See regulation 151, 210 and 277]


To,
Securities and Exchange Board of India


Dear Sirs,


Sub.: Public issue of …………………… by ……………………… (Name of issuer)


We confirm that:


(1) The certificates in respect of locked-in specified securities have been stamped ‘not
      transferable’ indicating the period of non-transferability and for locked-in specified securities
      in dematerialised form, non-transferability details have been provided to the depositories and
      the details of lock-in have been provided, before the listing of the specified securities, to all
      the stock exchanges.
(2) The specified securities included as minimum promoters’ contribution and the specified
      securities in excess of minimum promoters’ contribution have been locked-in in terms of these
      Regulations.

600
   The words and symbol “/ letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                       248
(3) The provisions regarding lock-in of specified securities held by persons other than promoters
      have been duly complied with in accordance with these Regulations.




 Place:                                                                    Lead Manager(s) to the Issue
 Date:                                                                               with Official Seal(s)


 Form G - Additional confirmations/ certification to be given by the lead manager(s) in due
      diligence certificate to be given along with offer document regarding issues on the SME
                                                exchanges
                                         [See regulation 247(2)]


To,
Securities and Exchange Board of India


Dear Sirs,


Sub.: Public 601[**] issue of …………………… by ……………………… (Name of issuer)


We confirm that:


(1)     None of the intermediaries named in the offer document (in case of public issue)/letter of
        offer (in case of a rights issue) are debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority.
(2)     The abridged prospectus/abridged letter of offer contains all disclosures as specified in these
        regulations.
(3)     All material disclosures in respect of the issuer have been made in the offer document/letter
        of offer and that any material development in the issuer or relating to the issue up to the
        commencement of listing and trading of the specified securities offered through this issue
        shall be informed through public notices/advertisements in all those newspapers in which
        pre-issue advertisement and advertisement for opening or closure of the issue have been
        given.
(4)     Agreements have been entered into with the depositories for dematerialisation of the
        specified securities of the issuer.

601
   The word and symbol “/ Rights” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                    249
(5)    The underwriting and market making arrangements as per requirements of regulation 261
       and 262 of these regulations have been made.
(6)    The issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the
       investors till the end of the quarter immediately preceding the month of the filing of the
       offer document with the Registrar of Companies or letter of offer with the SME Exchange.


 Place:                                                             Lead Manager(s) to the Issue
 Date:                                                                       with Official Seal(s)




  Form H - Format of the due diligence certificate to be filed by the lead manager for IDR
                                              issues


                                     [See regulation [186(3)]


To,
Securities and Exchange Board of India


Dear Sirs,


      Sub.: Issue of ………………… (hereinafter referred to as ‘IDRs’) by …………………
                        (hereinafter referred to as the ‘issuing company’)


We confirm that:


(1)    The Draft Red Herring Prospectus (hereinafter referred to as the “DRHP”) is being filed
       with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) in
       compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India
       (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 read with the Companies
       (Registration of Foreign Companies) Rules, 2014 (hereinafter referred to as “the IDR
       Rules”), on a public basis.
(2)    We have examined the disclosures made by the issuer in the jurisdictions where its
       underlying equity shares are listed so as to ensure uniformity and parity of information
       shared with investors across different regulatory jurisdictions (hereinafter referred to as



                                               250
          “publicly available information”) and participated in discussions with the senior
          management of the issuing company for the purpose of preparing the draft offer document.
  (3)     We have examined various documents including those relating to litigation, including
          commercial disputes, patent disputes, disputes with collaborators, etc. and other material while
          finalising the offer document of the subject issue.
  (4)     On the basis of such examination and the discussions with the issuer, its directors and other
          officers, other independent agencies/ experts/ reports, and independent verification of the
          statements concerning the objects of the issue, price justification, contents of the documents
          and other papers furnished by the issuer, we confirm that:
          (a)   the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer forwarded to the Board is in conformity
                with the documents, materials and papers relevant to the issue;
          (b)   the requirements under the IDR Rules and these regulations and other relevant laws
                framed by the Board, the Government and any other competent authority in this
                behalf have been duly complied with; and
          (c)   the disclosures made in the draft offer document/draft letter of offer are true, fair and
                adequate to enable the investors to make a well informed decision as to the investment in
                the proposed issue and such disclosures are in accordance with the requirements of the
                Companies Act, 2013, IDR Rules, these regulations and other applicable legal
                requirements.
(5)     Besides ourselves, all the other intermediaries named in the draft offer document/ draft letter
        of offer are registered with the Board and that till date, such registration is valid.
(6)     We have satisfied ourselves about the capability of the underwriters to fulfil their underwriting
        commitments.
(7)     The existing business as well as any new business of the issuer for which the funds are being
        raised fall within the ‘main objects’ in the object clause of the Memorandum of Association
        or other charter of the issuer.
(8)     Necessary arrangements shall be made to ensure that the monies received pursuant to the issue
        are credited or transferred to in a separate bank account as per the provisions of sub-section
        (3) of section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013 and that such monies shall be released by the
        said bank only after permission is obtained from all the stock exchanges, and that the
        agreement entered into between the bankers to the issue and the issuer specifically contains
        this condition.
(9)     Disclosure has been made in the draft offer document that the investors shall be given an
        option* to receive the IDR in demat or physical mode.



                                                      251
         [*The option to receive physical security certificates in a rights issue shall be available only
         for a period of six months from the date of coming into force of these regulations.]
(10) Following disclosures have been made in the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer:
         (a) An undertaking from the issuer that at any given time, there shall be only one
             denomination for the IDR, and
         (b) An undertaking from the issuer that it shall comply with all disclosure and accounting
             norms specified by the Board.
(11) None of the intermediaries named in the red herring prospectus / prospectus have been
         debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority.
(12) We enclose a note explaining the process of due diligence that has been exercised by us
         including in relation to the business of the issuer, the risks in relation to the business, and
         experience of the promoters.
(13) We enclose a checklist confirming regulation-wise compliance with the applicable provisions
         of these regulations, containing details such as the regulation number, its text, the status of
         compliance, page number of the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer where the regulation
         has been complied with and our comments, if any.
(14) Agreements have been entered into with the depositories for dematerialisation of the IDRs of
         the issuer.
   Place:                                                                          Lead Manager(s) to the Issue
   Date:                                                                                     with Official Seal(s)




            SCHEDULE VI - DISCLOSURES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT, ABRIDGED
                            PROSPECTUS AND 602[*] LETTER OF OFFER
         [See regulations 17, 24(2)(b), 34(1), 57(1)(f), 70(2), 603[**] 122(2)(ii), 123(2)(d), 131(1),
                153(1)(f), 186(3)(d), 218(2), 220(1)], 239, 246(2)(b), 282(1)(f), 287(2), 291]


                           Part A – Disclosures in offer document/letter of offer
        [See regulations17, 24(2)(b), 57(1)(f), 70(2), 122(2)(ii), 153(1)(f), 239, 246(2)(b), 282(1)(f),
                                                   287(2), 291]




  602
      The word “ABRIDGED” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
  Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
  603
      The word, numerals and symbols “71(2)(d), 75,” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                        252
All disclosures specified under this Part shall be made in the draft offer document or the draft
letter of offer and the offer document or the letter of offer, as applicable.


Instructions:
(a)   All information shall be relevant and updated. The source and basis of all statements and
      claims shall be disclosed. Terms such as “market leader”, “leading player”, etc. shall be
      used only if these can be substantiated by citing a proper source.
(b)   All blank spaces in the draft offer document shall be filled up with appropriate data before
      filing the offer document, as applicable, with the Registrar of Companies or filing the same
      with the recognised stock exchanges.
(c)   Simple English shall be used to enable easy understanding of the contents. Technical terms,
      if any, used in explaining the business of the issuer shall be clarified in simple terms.
(d)   Wherever it is mentioned that details are given elsewhere in the document, the same shall be
      adequately cross-referenced by indicating the paragraph heading and page number.
(e)   There shall be no forward-looking statements that cannot be substantiated.
(f)   Consistency shall be ensured in the style of disclosures. If first person is used, the same may
      be used throughout. Sentences that contain a combination of first and third persons may be
      avoided.
(g)   For currency of presentation, only one standard financial unit shall be used.


Applicability
An issuer making a public issue or a rights issue of specified securities shall make disclosures
specified in this Schedule.
Provided that:
(a)   an issuer making a fast track 604[public issue] may not make the disclosures specified in
      605
            [Part D] of this Schedule.
(b)   an issuer making a further public offer of specified securities may not make the disclosures
      specified in Part C of this Schedule if it satisfies the conditions specified in paragraph 2 of
      that Part.
(c)   an issuer making a rights issue may only make the disclosures specified in Part B of this
      Schedule if it satisfies the conditions specified in paragraph 1 of such Part.



604
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “issue”.
605
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “Part B”.

                                                   253
606
      [Provided further that for the purpose of public issue by an issuer to be listed /listed on SME
      exchange made in accordance with Chapter IX of these regulations, the words “retail individual
      investors” shall be read as words “individual investors who applies for minimum application
      size”.]


      (1) Cover pages: The cover pages shall be of adequate thickness (minimum hundred GSM
            quality) and shall be white in colour with no patterns.
                (a) Front cover pages:
                         607
                   (1)         [Front outside cover page shall contain issue and issuer details, details of
                         selling shareholders in tabular format along with their average cost of acquisition
                         and offer for sale details, and other details as may be specified by the Board from
                         time to time.]
                   (2)   Front 608[inside] cover page shall contain only the following issue details:
                         a)       The type of the offer document (“Draft Red Herring Prospectus”/”Draft
                                  Letter of Offer”, “Red Herring Prospectus”, “Shelf Prospectus”,
                                  "Prospectus", “Letter of Offer”, as applicable).
                         b)       Date of the draft offer document or offer document.
                         c)       Type of issuance (“book built” or “fixed price”).
                         d)       In case of a public issue, the following clause shall be incorporated in a
                                  prominent manner, below the title of the offer document:
                                 “Please read Section 32 of the Companies Act, 2013”
                         e)       Name of the issuer, its logo, date and place of its incorporation, corporate
                                  identity number, address of its registered and corporate offices, telephone
                                  number, contact person, website address and e-mail address (where there
                                  has been any change in the address of the registered office or the name of
                                  the issuer, reference to the page of the offer document where details
                                  thereof are given).
                         f)       Names of the promoter(s) of the issuer.



      606
          Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
      607
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the substitution, point (1) read as follows:
                    “(1) Front inside cover page shall be kept blank.”
      608
          Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
      (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “outside”.

                                                           254
g)   Nature, number and price of specified securities offered and issue size, as
     may be applicable, including any offer for sale by promoters or members
     of the promoter group or other shareholders.
h)   Aggregate amount proposed to be raised through all the stages of offers
     made through a shelf prospectus.
i)   In the case of the first issue of the issuer, the following clause on ‘Risks in
     relation to the First Issue’ shall be incorporated in a box format:
     "This being the first issue of the issuer, there has been no formal market
     for the securities of the issuer. The face value of the equity shares is (-----).
     The issue price/floor price/price band should not be taken to be indicative
     of the market price of the specified securities after the specified securities
     are listed. No assurance can be given regarding an active or sustained
     trading in the equity shares of the issuer nor regarding the price at which
     the equity shares will be traded after listing."
j)   The following clause on ‘General Risk' shall be incorporated in a box
     format:
     "Investment in equity and equity related securities involve a degree of risk
     and investors should not invest any funds in this offer unless they can
     afford to take the risk of losing their investment. Investors are advised to
     read the risk factors carefully before taking an investment decision in this
     offering. For taking an investment decision, investors must rely on their
     own examination of the issuer and the offer including the risks involved.
     The securities have not been recommended or approved by the Securities
     and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) nor does SEBI guarantee the
     accuracy or adequacy of this document. Specific attention of investors is
     invited to the statement of ‘Risk factors’ given on page number ….. under
     the section ‘General Risks’."
k)   The following clause on ‘Issuer’s Absolute Responsibility’ shall be
     incorporated in a box format:
     "The issuer, having made all reasonable inquiries, accepts responsibility
     for and confirms that this offer document contains all information with
     regard to the issuer and the issue which is material in the context of the
     issue, that the information contained in the offer document is true and
     correct in all material aspects and is not misleading in any material respect,
     that the opinions and intentions expressed herein are honestly held and that

                              255
                         there are no other facts, the omission of which make this document as a
                         whole or any of such information or the expression of any such opinions
                         or intentions misleading in any material respect. The selling shareholders
                         accept responsibility for and confirm the statements made by them in this
                         offer document to the extent of information specifically pertaining to them
                         and their respective portion of the offered shares and assume responsibility
                         that such statements are true and correct in all material respects and not
                         misleading in any material respect"
                 l)      Names, logos and addresses of all the lead manager(s) with their titles who
                         have signed the due diligence certificate and filed the offer document with
                         the Board, along with their telephone numbers, website addresses and e-
                         mail addresses. (Where any of the lead manager(s) is an associate of the
                         issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer and that its role is
                         limited to marketing of the issue.)
                 m)      Name, logo and address of the registrar to the issue, along with its
                         telephone number, website address and e-mail address.
                 n)      Issue schedule:
                         (i)     Anchor bid period, if any
                         (ii)    Date of opening of the issue
                         (iii)   Date of closing of the issue
                         (iv)    Date of earliest closing of the issue, if any
                 o)      Credit rating, if applicable.
                 p)      IPO grading, if any
                 q)      Name(s) of the stock exchanges where the specified securities are
                         proposed to be listed and the details of their in-principle approval for
                         listing obtained from these stock exchange(s).


     (b) Back cover pages: The back inside cover page and back outside cover page shall be
           kept blank.


(2) Table of Contents: The table of contents shall appear immediately after the front inside cover
     page.


(3) Definitions and abbreviations:
   (A) Conventional or general terms

                                                   256
       (B) Issue related terms
       (C) Issuer and industry related terms
       (D) Abbreviations


(4) Offer Document summary: This section shall contain summary of the following information,
         as applicable:
       (A) Primary business of the Issuer and the industry in which it operates, in not more than 100
           words each;
       (B) Names of the promoters;
       (C) Size of the issue disclosing separately size of the fresh issue and offer for sale;
       (D) Objects of the issue in a tabular format;
       (E) Aggregate pre-issue shareholding of the promoter and promoter group, selling
           shareholder(s) as a percentage of the paid-up share capital of the issuer;
609
      [(EA) For the promoter(s), promoter group and additional top 10 shareholders, the pre-issue and
           post-issue shareholding as at allotment, in the following format in the prospectus:
           Shareholding of Promoter / Promoter Group and Additional Top 10 Shareholders of the
           Company as at allotment:
                Pre-Issue shareholding as at the date of
                                                         Post-Issue shareholding as at Allotment (3)
                Advertisement
                                                         At the lower end of the At the upper end of the
         S. No.                   Number of Share        price band (₹[●])        price band (₹[●])
                Shareholders      Equity      holding    Number of Share          Number of Share holding
                                  Shares(2) (in %)(2)    Equity       holding (in Equity      (in %)(2)
                                                         Shares (2)   %)(2)     Shares(2)
           1.Promoter 1 [Name] [●]            [●]%       [●]          [●]%      [●]         [●]%
             Promoter 2 [Name] [●]            [●]%       [●]          [●]%      [●]         [●]%
             Promoter Group(1) [●]            [●]%       [●]          [●]%      [●]         [●]%
          2. [●]               [●]            [●]%       [●]          [●]%      [●]         [●]%
          3. [●]               [●]            [●]%       [●]          [●]%      [●]         [●]%
         ……………….
         9.  [●]               [●]            [●]%       [●]          [●]%      [●]         [●]%
         10. [●]               [●]            [●]%       [●]          [●]%      [●]         [●]%
         11. [●]               [●]            [●]%       [●]          [●]%      [●]         [●]%


                                  Notes:
                                  1) The Promoter Group shareholders are [●], [●] and [●].
                                  2) Includes all options that have been exercised until date of
                                     prospectus and any transfers of equity shares by existing
                                     shareholders after the date of the pre-issue and price band
                                     advertisement until date of prospectus.
                                  3) Based on the Issue price of ₹[●] and subject to finalization of the
                                     basis of allotment.]


609
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                       257
(F) Following details as per the restated consolidated financial statements for past 3 years and
   stub period in tabular format:
       a. Share capital;
       b. Net Worth;
       c. Revenue;
       d. Profit after tax;
       e. Earnings per share;
       f. Net Asset Value per equity share; and
       g. Total borrowings (as per balance sheet).
(G) Auditor qualifications which have not been given effect to in the restated financial
   statements.
(H) Summary table of outstanding litigations and a cross-reference to the section titled
   ‘Outstanding Litigations and Material Developments’.
(I) Cross-reference to the section titled ‘Risk Factors’.
(J) Summary table of contingent liabilities and a cross-reference to contingent liabilities of the
   issuer as disclosed in restated financial statements.
(K) Summary of related party transactions for last 3 years and cross-reference to related party
   transactions as disclosed in restated financial statements.
(L) Details of all financing arrangements whereby the promoters, members of the promoter
   group, the directors of the company which is a promoter of the issuer, the directors of the
   issuer and their relatives have financed the purchase by any other person of securities of
   the issuer other than in the normal course of the business of the financing entity during the
   period of six months immediately preceding the date of the draft offer document/offer
   document.
(M) Weighted average price at which specified security was acquired by each of the promoters
   and selling shareholders in the last one year.
(N) Average cost of acquisition of shares for promoter and selling shareholders.
(O) Size of the pre-IPO placement and allottees, upon completion of the placement
(P) Any issuances of equity shares made in the last one year for consideration other than cash.
(Q) Any split/consolidation of equity shares in the last one year.




                                             258
      610
            [(R) Exemption from complying with any provisions of securities laws, if any, granted by
      SEBI shall be disclosed.]
(5) Risk factors:
      (A) Risk factors shall be printed in a clear readable font (preferably of minimum point ten
            size).
      (B) Risk factors shall be classified as those which are specific to the project and internal to the
            issuer and those which are external and beyond the control of the issuer.
      (C) Risk factors shall be determined on the basis of their materiality. In doing so, the
            following shall be considered:
                (1) Some risks may not be material individually but may be material when considered
                       collectively.
                (2) Some risks may have an impact which is qualitative though not quantitative.
                (3) Some risks may not be material at present but may have a material impact in the
                       future.
      (D) Each risk factor shall appear in the following manner:
                (1) The risk as envisaged by the issuer.
                (2) Proposals, if any, to address the risk.
      (E) Proposals to address the risks shall not contain any speculative statement on the positive
            outcome of any matter or litigation, etc. and shall not be given for any matter that is sub-
            judice before any court/tribunal.
      (F) Risk factors shall be disclosed in the descending order of materiality. Wherever risks about
            material impact are stated, likely or potential implications, including financial implication,
            wherever quantifiable shall be disclosed. If it cannot be quantified, a distinct statement
            about the fact that the implications cannot be quantified shall be made.
      (G) Risk factors covering the following subjects, shall necessarily be disclosed wherever
            applicable:
                (1) Material statutory clearances and approval that are yet to be received by the issuer;
                (2) Seasonality of the business of the issuer;
                (3) Any issue of the specified securities by the issuer within the last twelve months at a
                     price lower than the issue price (other than bonus issues);
                (4) Where an object of the issue is to finance acquisitions and the acquisition targets
                     have not been identified, details of interim use of funds and the probable date of
                     completing the acquisitions;

610
  Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                      259
             (5) Risk associated with orders not having been placed for plant and machinery in
                 relation to the objects of the issue, indicating the percentage and value terms of the
                 plant and machinery for which orders are yet to be placed
             (6) Lack of significant experience of the issuer or its promoters in the industry
                 segment for which the issue is being made;
             (7) If the issuer has incurred losses in the last three financial years;
             (8) Dependence of the issuer or any of its business segments upon a single customer or
                 a few customers, the loss of any one or more may have a material adverse effect on
                 the issuer.
             (9) Refusal of listing of any securities of the issuer or any of its subsidiaries 611[***]
                 during last ten years by any of the stock exchanges in India or abroad.
             (10)         Failure of the issuer or any of its subsidiary 612[***] to meet the listing
                 requirements of any stock exchange in India or abroad and the details of penalty, if
                 any, including suspension of trading, imposed by such stock exchanges.
             (11)         Limited or sporadic trading of any specified securities of the issuer on the
                 stock exchanges.
             (12)         In case of outstanding debt instruments, any default in compliance with the
                 material covenants such as in creation of full security as per terms of issue, default
                 in payment of interest, default in redemption, non-creation of debenture
                 redemption reserve, default in payment of penal interest wherever applicable, non-
                 availability or non-maintenance of asset cover, interest cover, debt-service cover,
                 etc.
             (13)         Unsecured loans, if any, taken by the issuer and its subsidiaries that can be
                 recalled at any time.
             (14)         Default in repayment of deposits or payment of interest thereon by the
                 issuer and subsidiaries, and the roll over of liability, if any.
             (15)         Potential conflict of interest of the promoters or directors of the issuer if
                 involved with one or more ventures which are in the same line of activity or
                 business as that of the issuer.
             (16)         Shortfall in performance vis-à-vis the objects stated in any of the issues
                 made by the listed issuer or listed subsidiaries in the last ten years, as disclosed



611
    The words “or group companies” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021.
612
    The words “or group companies” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021.

                                                       260
                under the heading "Performance vis-à-vis Objects" in the section "Other
                Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures", quantifying such shortfalls or delays.
            (17)        Shortfall in performance vis-à-vis the objects stated in the issues made by
                any of its listed subsidiaries or listed promoter(s) in the previous five years, as
                disclosed under the heading "Performance vis-à-vis Objects" in the section "Other
                Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures", quantifying such shortfalls or delays.
            (18)        Interests of the promoters, directors 613[, key managerial personnel or senior
                management] of the issuer, other than reimbursement of expenses incurred or
                normal remuneration or benefits.
            (19)        Any portion of the issue proceeds that is proposed to be paid by the issuer
                to the promoter, directors 614[, key managerial personnel or senior management] of
                the issuer.
            (20)        Relationship of the promoter or directors of the issuer with the entities from
                whom the issuer has acquired or proposes to acquire land in the last 5 years, along
                with the relevant details.
            (21)        Excessive dependence on any key managerial personnel 615[or senior
                management] for the project for which the issue is being made.
            (22)        Any material investment in debt instruments by the issuer which are
                unsecured.
            (23)        Non-provision for decline in the value of investments.
            (24)        Summary of all outstanding litigations and other matters disclosed in the
                section titled ‘Outstanding Litigations and Material Developments’ in a tabular
                format along with amount involved, where quantifiable. Issuer shall also separately
                highlight any criminal, regulatory or taxation matters which may have any material
                adverse effect on the issuer.
            (25)        The delay, if any, in the schedule of the implementation of the project for
                which the funds are being raised in the public issue.
            (26)        If monitoring agency is not required to be appointed as per these
                Regulations, the statement that deployment of the issue proceeds is entirely at the
                discretion of the issuer.


613
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “or key management personnel”.
614
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “or key managerial personnel”.
615
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.

                                                   261
              (27)            Negative cash flow from operating activities in the last three financial
                     years.
              (28)            If the land proposed to be acquired from proceeds of the issue is not
                     registered in the name of the issuer.
              (29)            Any restrictive covenants as regards the interests of the equity shareholders
                     in any shareholders' agreement, promoters' agreement or any other agreement for
                     short term (secured and unsecured) and long term borrowings.
              (30)            Existence of a large number of pending investor grievances against the
                     issuer 616[and] listed subsidiaries 617[***].
              (31)            In case of issue of secured convertible debt instruments, risks associated
                     with second or residual charge or subordinated obligation created on the asset
                     cover.
              618
                    [32. In case the proforma financial statements / restated consolidated financial
              statements has been provided by a peer reviewed Chartered Accountants who is not
              statutory auditor of the Company, the Issuer Company shall put this as a Top 10 Risk
              Factor in its offer document (DRHP/RHP/Prospectus).]
(6) Introduction:
      (A) Issue details in brief.
      (B) Summary of consolidated financial information.


(7) General information:
      (A) Name and address of the registered and corporate offices, the registration number of the
          issuer, and the address of the Registrar of Companies where the issuer is registered.
      (B) Name, designation, address and DIN of each member of the board of directors of the
          issuer
      (C) Names, addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of the Company Secretary,
          legal advisor and bankers to the issuer.
      (D) Name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the compliance officer.
      (E) Names, addresses, telephone numbers, contact person, website addresses and e-mail
          addresses of the lead manager(s), registrars to the issue, bankers to the issue, brokers to the


616
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021 for the symbol “,”.
617
    The words “and top 5 listed group companies by market capitalisation” omitted by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f
13.08.2021.
618
    Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                       262
   issue and syndicate member(s); URL of SEBI website listing out the details of self
   certified syndicate banks, registrar to the issue and share transfer agents, depository
   participants, etc.
(F) Names, addresses, telephone numbers peer review number, firm registration number and
   e-mail addresses of the auditors of the issuer.
(G) Statement of inter-se allocation of responsibilities among lead manager(s).
(H) Following details of credit rating in case of a public issue of convertible debt instruments:
   (a)     The names of all the credit rating agencies from which credit rating including
           unaccepted rating has been obtained for the issue of convertible debt instruments.
   (b)     Details of all credit ratings, including unaccepted ratings, obtained for the public
           issue of convertible debt instruments.
   (c)     All credit ratings obtained during the preceding three years prior to the filing the
           draft offer document/offer document for any of the issuer’s listed convertible debt
           instruments at the time of accessing the market through a convertible debt
           instrument.
(I) Following details of IPO grading, if obtained:
   (a)     Names of all credit rating agencies from which IPO grading has been obtained.
   (b)     Details of all grades obtained from such credit rating agencies.
   (c)     Rationale or description of the grading(s), as furnished by the credit rating
           agencies.
(J) Name, address, telephone number, website address and e-mail address of the debenture
   trustee, in case of a public issue of convertible debt instruments.
(K) Name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the monitoring agency, if
   appointed, and disclosure as to whether such appointment is pursuant to these regulations.
(L) Name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the appraising entity in case the
   project has been appraised.
(M) Filing the draft offer document/draft letter of offer/offer document:
   (a)     Under this head, the office of the Board where the draft offer document/draft letter
           of offer/offer document has been filed.
   (b)     Address of the Registrar of Companies, where copy of the offer document, having
           attached thereto the material contracts and documents referred to elsewhere in the
           offer document, has been filed.
(N) Where the issue is being made through the book building process, the brief explanation of
   the book building process.
(O) Details of underwriting:


                                             263
       (a)    Names, addresses, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of the underwriters
              and the amount underwritten by each of them.
       (b)    Declaration by the board of directors of the issuer that the underwriters have
              sufficient resources to discharge their respective obligations
       (c)    In case of partial underwriting of the issue, the extent of such underwriting.
       (d)    Details of the final underwriting arrangement indicating actual number of specified
              securities underwritten, to be provided in the prospectus before it is filed with the
              Registrar of Companies.
   (P) Changes in the auditors during the last three years along with name, address, email
       address, peer review number and firm registration number of auditors and reasons thereof.
   (Q) Green Shoe Option, if applicable:
       (a)    Name of the stabilising agent.
       (b)    Maximum number of equity shares in number and as a percentage of the proposed
              issue size, proposed to be over-allotted by the issuer.
       (c)    Maximum period for which the issuer proposes to avail of the stabilisation
              mechanism;
       (d)    the stabilising agent shall disclose if it proposes to close the stabilisation
              mechanism prior to the maximum period.
       (e)    Maximum increase in the equity share capital of the issuer and the post-issue
              shareholding pattern, in case the issuer is required to allot further equity shares to
              the extent of over-allotment in the issue.
       (f)    Maximum amount of funds to be received by the issuer in case of further allotment
              and the use of these additional funds.
       (g)    Details of the agreement or arrangement entered into by the stabilising agent with
              the promoters or shareholders to borrow equity shares from the latter. The details
              shall, inter-alia, include the name of the promoters or shareholders, their existing
              shareholding in the issuer, the number and percentage of equity shares to be lent by
              them and other important terms and conditions including rights and obligations of
              each party.
       (h)    Exact number of equity shares to be allotted/transferred pursuant to the public
              issue, stating separately the number of equity shares to be borrowed from the
              promoters or shareholders and over-allotted by the stabilising agent and the
              percentage of such equity shares in relation to the total issue size.


(8) Capital structure:


                                                264
(A) The capital structure in the following order in a tabular form:
       (a) Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid-up capital (number of securities,
           description and aggregate nominal value).
       (b) Size of the present issue, giving separately the promoters’ contribution, if any,
           reservation for specified categories, if any, and net offer (number of securities,
           description, aggregate nominal value and issue amount (to be disclosed in that
           order) and applicable percentages in case of a book built issue.
       (c) Paid-up capital:
           (i)     After the issue.
           (ii)    After conversion of convertible instruments (if applicable).
       (d) Share premium account (before and after the issue).
(B) The following tables/notes shall be included after the table of the capital structure:
       (a) Details of the existing share capital of the issuer in a tabular form, indicating
           therein with regard to each allotment, the date of allotment, the name of allottee,
           nature of allotment, the number of shares allotted, the face value of the shares, the
           issue price and the form of consideration.
       (b) Where shares have been issued for consideration other than cash or out of
           revaluation reserves at any point of time, details in a separate table, indicating the
           date of issue, date of revaluation of assets, persons to whom issued, price, reasons
           for the issue and whether any benefits have accrued to the issuer out of the issue.
       (c) If shares have been allotted in terms of any scheme of arrangement approved under
           sections 391-394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or sections 230-234 of the
           Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, the details of such shares allotted, along with
           the page numbers where details of such scheme is given.
       (d) Where the issuer has issued equity shares under one or more employee stock
           option schemes, particulars of equity shares issued under the employee stock
           option schemes may be aggregated quarter-wise, indicating the aggregate number
           of equity shares issued and the price range within which equity shares have been
           issued in each quarter.
       (e) If the issuer has made any issue of specified securities at a price lower than the
           issue price during the preceding one year, specific details of the names of the
           persons to whom such specified securities have been issued, whether they are part
           of the promoter group, reasons for such issue and the price.




                                             265
            (f) Shareholding pattern of the issuer in the format as prescribed under 619[regulation
                31] of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
                Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
                (i)     Following details regarding major shareholders: Names of the shareholders
                        of the issuer holding 1% or more of the paid-up capital of the issuer as on
                        the date of filing of the draft offer document/ or end of last week from the
                        date of draft letter of offer and the offer document, as the case may be.
                        Provided that details of shareholding aggregating at least 80% of capital of
                        company shall be disclosed.
                (ii)    Number of equity shares held by the shareholders specified in clause (i)
                        including number of equity shares which they would be entitled to upon
                        exercise of warrant, option or right to convert a debenture, loan or other
                        instrument.
                (iii)   Particulars specified in items (i) and (ii) as on a date two years prior to the
                        date of filing of the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer and the offer
                        document, as the case may be.
                (iv)    Particulars specified in items (i) and (ii) as on a date one year prior to the
                        date of filing of the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer and the offer
                        document, as the case may be.
                (v)     The particulars specified in items (i) and (ii) as on a date ten days prior to
                        the date of date of filing of the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer and
                        the offer document, as the case may be.
                (vi)    If the issuer has made an initial public offer of specified securities in the
                        preceding two years, the particulars specified in items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv)
                        shall be disclosed to indicate separately the names of the persons who
                        acquired equity shares by subscription to the public issue and those who
                        acquired the equity shares by allotment on a firm basis or through private
                        placement.
            (g) Proposal or intention, negotiations and consideration of the issuer to alter the
                capital structure by way of split or consolidation of the denomination of the shares,
                or issue of specified securities on a preferential basis or issue of bonus or rights or
                further public offer of specified securities, within a period of six months from the
                date of opening of the issue.

619
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “Regulation 33”.

                                                   266
(h) Total shareholding of each of the promoters in a tabular form, with the name of the
   promoter, nature of issue, date of allotment/transfer, number of shares, face value,
   issue price/ consideration, date when the shares were made fully paid-up, percentage
   of the total pre and post-issue capital, if any and the number and percentage of
   pledged shares, if any, held by each promoter.
(i) The number of members/shareholders of the issuer.
(j) Details of:
   (i)     the aggregate shareholding of the promoter group and of the directors of the
           promoters, where the promoter is a body corporate.
   (ii) the aggregate number of specified securities purchased or sold by the promoter
           group and/or by the directors of the company which is a promoter of the issuer
           and/or by the directors of the issuer and their relatives in the preceding six
           months.
   (iii) all financing arrangements whereby the promoter group, the directors of the
           company which is a promoter of the issuer, the directors of the issuer and their
           relatives have financed the purchase by any other person of securities of the
           issuer other than in the normal course of the business of the financing entity in
           the six months immediately preceding the date of filing of the draft offer
           document/offer document.
   (iv) In case it is not possible to obtain information regarding sales and purchases
           of specified securities by any relatives of the promoter, details on the basis of
           the transfers as recorded in the books of the issuer and/or the depository, as
           applicable and a statement to such effect.
(k) Promoters’ contribution:
   (i)       Details of promoters’ contribution and lock-in period in a tabular form,
             separately in respect of each promoter by name, with the date of allotment
             of specified securities, the date when fully paid-up, the nature of allotment
             (rights, bonus, preferential etc.), the number, face value and issue price, the
             percentage of promoters’ contribution to total issued capital and the date up
             to which the specified securities are subject to lock-in.
   (ii)      In the case of an initial public offer, details of all individual allotments from
             the date of incorporation of the issuer and in case of a further public offer
             by a listed issuer, such details for the preceding five years.
   (iii)     In case of further public offers or rights issues, shares acquired by the
             promoters through a public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, bonus

                                       267
             issue, conversion of depository receipts or under any employee stock option
             scheme or employee stock purchase scheme to be shown separately from
             the shares acquired in the secondary market and its aggregate cost of shares
             acquired in the secondary market, if available.
   (iv)      Details of compliance with applicable provisions of these regulations with
             respect to promoters’’ contribution and lock-in requirements.
   (v)       If the issuer is exempt from the requirements of promoters’ contribution,
             the relevant provisions under which it is so exempt.
   (vi)      A statement that the promoter undertakes to accept full conversion, if the
             promoters’ contribution is in terms of the same optionally convertible debt
             instrument as is being offered to the public.
(l) A statement that the issuer, its directors or the lead manager(s) have not entered
   into any buy-back arrangements for purchase of the specified securities of the
   issuer.
(m) A statement that all securities offered through the issue shall be made fully paid-up,
   if applicable, or may be forfeited for non-payment of calls within twelve months
   from the date of allotment of securities.
(n) Details of shareholding, if any, of the lead manager(s) and their associates (as
   defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers)
   Regulations, 1992) in the issuer.
(o) Details of options granted or equity shares issued under any scheme of employee
   stock option or employee stock purchase of issuer, in the preceding three years
   (separately for each year) and on a cumulative basis for all options or equity shares
   issued prior to the date of the offer document.
(p) The following details in cases where options granted to employees in pursuance of
   any employee stock option scheme existing prior to the initial public offer, are
   outstanding at the time of the initial public offer:
   (i)       options granted;
   (ii)      options vested;
   (iii)     options exercised;
   (iv)      the exercise price;
   (v)       the total number of shares arising as a result of exercise of option;
   (vi)      options lapsed;
   (vii)     variation of terms of options;
   (viii)    money realised by exercise of options;

                                       268
                (ix)     total number of options in force;
                (x)      employee-wise details of options granted to:
                          key managerial personnel 620[and senior management];
                          any other employee who receives a grant in any one year of options
                            amounting to five per cent. or more of options granted during that year;
                          identified employees who were granted options, during any one year,
                            equal to or exceeding one per cent. of the issued capital (excluding
                            outstanding warrants and conversions) of the issuer at the time of grant;
                 (xi)    diluted Earnings Per Share pursuant to the issue of equity shares on
                         exercise of options calculated in accordance with applicable accounting
                         standard on ‘Earnings Per Share’.
                 (xii)   where the issuer has calculated the employee compensation cost using the
                         intrinsic value of the stock options, the difference between the employee
                         compensation cost so computed and the employee compensation cost that
                         shall have been recognised if it had used the fair value of the options and
                         the impact of this difference on profits and on the Earnings Per Share of the
                         issuer.
                 (xiii) description of the pricing formula and the method and significant
                         assumptions used during the year to estimate the fair values of options,
                         including weighted-average information, namely, risk-free interest rate,
                         expected life, expected volatility, expected dividends, and the price of the
                         underlying share in market at the time of grant of the option.
                (xiv)    impact on the profits and on the Earnings Per Share of the last three years if
                         the issuer had followed the accounting policies specified in 621[Securities
                         and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat
                         Equity) Regulations, 2021], in respect of options granted in the last three
                         years.
                (xv)     intention of the key managerial personnel 622[, senior management] and
                         whole-time directors who are holders of equity shares allotted on exercise
                         of options granted under an employee stock option scheme or allotted under

620
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
621
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023 for the words and symbols “Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014”.
622
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.

                                                   269
                         an employee stock purchase scheme, to sell their equity shares within three
                         months after the date of listing of the equity shares in the initial public offer
                         (aggregate number of equity shares intended to be sold by the holders of
                         options), if any. In case of an employee stock option scheme, this
                         information same shall be disclosed regardless of whether the equity shares
                         arise out of options exercised before or after the initial public offer.
                (xvi)    specific disclosures about the intention to sell equity shares arising out of
                         an employee stock option scheme or allotted under an employee stock
                         purchase scheme within three months after the date of listing, by directors,
                         623
                               [key managerial personnel, senior management] and employees having
                         equity shares issued under an employee stock option scheme or employee
                         stock purchase scheme amounting to more than one per cent. of the issued
                         capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions), which inter-alia
                         shall include name, designation and quantum of the equity shares issued
                         under an employee stock option scheme or employee stock purchase
                         scheme and the quantum they intend to sell within three months.
                (xvii)   details of the number of shares issued in employee share purchase scheme,
                         the price at which such shares are issued, employee-wise details of the
                         shares issued to
                         •        key managerial personnel 624[and senior management];
                         •        any other employee who is issued shares in any one year amounting
                                  to 5 per cent. or more shares issued during that year;
                         •        identified employees who were issued shares during any one year
                                  equal to or exceeding 1 per cent. of the issued capital of the company
                                  at the time of issuance;
                (xviii) diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) pursuant to issuance of shares under
                         employee share purchase scheme; and consideration received against the
                         issuance of shares.
            (q) In case of a further public offer by a listed issuer, which has earlier (after being a
                listed issuer) made any preferential allotment or bonus issue or qualified
                institutions placement of specified securities in the ten years preceding the date of



623
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “senior managerial personnel”.
624
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.

                                                    270
                 the draft offer document/offer document, a confirmation that the relevant
                 provisions of the regulations have been complied with.


(9) Particulars of the issue:
      (A) Objects of the issue:
         (1)     Objects of the issue.
         (2)     If one of the objects of the issue is loan repayment:
                 (a)         details of loan proposed to be repaid such as name of the lender, brief terms
                             and conditions and amount outstanding;
                 (b)         certificate from the statutory auditor certifying the utilization of loan for the
                             purposed availed.
                       625
                             [Provided that such certificate may be obtained from the Chartered
                             Accountant, holding a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of
                             the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) for:
                             (i)      the periods not audited by the current statutory auditor; or
                             (ii)     the loan which is proposed to be repaid was availed by a subsidiary
                             and the current statutory auditor of the issuer is not the statutory auditor of
                             the subsidiary.]
         (3)     If one of the objects is investment in a joint venture or a subsidiary or an
                 acquisition, following additional disclosures:
                 (a) details of the form of investment, i.e., equity, debt or any other instrument;
                 (b) If the form of investment has not been decided, a statement to that effect;
                 (c) If the investment is in debt instruments, complete details regarding rate of
                             interest, nature of security, terms of repayment, subordination, etc.;
                 (d) Nature of benefit expected to accrue to the issuer as a result of the investment
         (4)     If one of the objects of the issue is to grant a loan to an entity other than a
                 subsidiary, details of the loan agreements, including the rate of interest, whether
                 secured or unsecured, duration, nature of security, terms of repayment,
                 subordination etc. and the nature of benefit expected to accrue to the issuer as a
                 result of the investment. If such a loan is to be granted to any of the group
                 companies, details of the same.




625
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                        271
       (5)         If one of the objects of the issue is utilisation of the issue proceeds for long term
                   working capital, the following additional disclosures on a standalone basis 626[,
                   based on audited standalone financial statements]:
                   (a)   Basis of estimation of working capital requirement along with the relevant
                         assumptions.
                   (b)   Reasons for raising additional working capital substantiating the same with
                         relevant facts and figures.
                   (c)   Details of the projected working capital requirement, including detailed
                         assessment of working capital after implementation of the project or
                         achievement of objects of the issue, as the case may be, capacity utilisation
                         assumptions, break up of expected current assets into raw materials, finished
                         goods, work in progress, sundry debtors etc., with assumption about the
                         holding norms for each type of current asset, total current liabilities, net
                         current assets and envisaged sources of finance for net current assets, i.e.,
                         bank finance, institutional finance, own funds, etc.
                   (d)   Total envisaged working capital requirement in a tabular form, the margin
                         money thereof and the portion to be financed by any bank(s) or otherwise.
                   (e)   Details of the existing working capital available to the issuer with a break up
                         for total current assets into raw materials, finished goods, work in progress,
                         sundry debtors, etc., total current liabilities, net current assets and sources of
                         finance for net current assets i.e. bank finance, institutional finance, own
                         funds etc.
                   (f)   If no working capital is shown as a part of project for which the issue is
                         being made, the reasons for the same.
             627
                   [Provided that such standalone financial statements shall be restated if there are any
                   restatements/ adjustments in the restated consolidated financial statements which
                   may have impact on the audited standalone financial statements.]
       (6)         Land:
                   (a)   Names of the entities from whom land has been acquired/ proposed to be
                         acquired along with the cost of acquisition, and the relationship, if any, of such




626
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
627
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                       272
              entities to any promoter or director of the issuer, in case the proceeds of the
              issue are being utilised for acquisition of land.
      (b)     Details of whether the land acquired by the issuer is free from all
              encumbrances and has a clear title and whether it is registered in the name of
              the issuer.
      (c)     Details of whether the issuer has applied/ received all the approvals
              pertaining to land. If no such approvals are required to be taken by the issuer,
              then this fact may be indicated by way of an affirmative statement.
      (d)     Figures appearing under this section shall be consistent with the figures
              appearing under the section "Cost of the Project".
(7)   Project:
      If one of the objects of the issue is to fund a project, details of:
      (a) location of the project;
      (b) plant and machinery, technology, process, etc.;
            i) Details shall be given in a tabular form, which shall include the details of
                the machines required to be bought by the issuer, cost of the machines,
                name of the suppliers, date of placement of order and the date or expected
                date of supply, etc.
            ii) In case machines are yet to be delivered, the date of quotations relied upon
                for the cost estimates given shall also be mentioned.
            iii) The percentage and value terms of the plant and machinery for which
                orders are yet to be placed shall be stated.
      (c) The details of the second hand machinery bought or proposed to be bought, if
            any, including the age of the machines, balance estimated life, etc. shall also be
            given. collaboration, performance guarantee if any, or assistance in marketing
            by the collaborators. The following information regarding persons or entities
            with whom technical and financial agreements have been entered into shall be
            given:
            i) place of registration and year of incorporation.
            ii) paid up share capital.
            iii) turnover of the last financial year of operation.
            iv) general information regarding such persons relevant to the issuer.
      (d) infrastructure facilities for raw materials and utilities like water, electricity, etc.
(8)   Property:



                                          273
                If one of the object of the issue is to purchase any property, where arrangements
                have been made, details of:
                (a) names address, descriptions and occupations of the vendors;
                (b) the amount paid or payable in cash, shares or debentures to the vendor and,
                     where there is more than one separate vendor, or the issuer is a sub purchaser,
                     the amount so paid or payable to each vendor, specifying separately the
                     amount, if any, paid or payable for goodwill;
                (c) nature of the title or interest in such property acquired or to be acquired by the
                     issuer;
                (d) short particulars of every transaction relating to the property completed within
                     the two preceding years, in which any vendor of the property to the issuer or
                     any person who is, or was at the time of the transaction, a promoter, or a
                     director or proposed director of the issuer had any interest, direct or indirect,
                     specifying the date of the transaction and the name of such promoter, director
                     or proposed director and stating the amount payable by or to such vendor,
                     promoter, director or proposed director in respect of the transaction.
                (e) The property to which 628[sub-clauses (a) to (d) apply] is a property purchased
                     or acquired by the issuer or proposed to be purchased or acquired, which is to
                     be paid for wholly or partly out of the proceeds of the issue or the purchase or
                     acquisition of which has not been completed as of the date of the draft offer
                     document or offer document, as the case may be.
        (9)     Plant/ Equipment/ Technology/ Process:
                If one of the objects of the issue is to purchase any plant, machinery, technology,
                process, etc.
                (i) Details in a tabular form, which shall include the details of the equipment
                    required to be bought by the issuer, cost of the equipment, name of the
                    suppliers, date of placement of order and the date or expected date of supply,
                    etc.
                (ii) In case the order for the equipment is yet to be placed, the date of quotations
                    relied upon for the cost estimates given.
                (iii)The percentage and value terms of the equipment for which orders are yet to be
                    placed.



628
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “sub-clause (a) applies”.

                                                   274
                (iv) The details of the second hand equipment bought or proposed to be bought, if
                   any, including the age of the machines, balance estimated life, etc.
         (10)   In case of a public issue of secured convertible debt instruments,: description of the
                assets on which the security shall be created/asset cover, if required, shall be
                created, the basis for computation of the security cover, the valuation methods, the
                periodicity of such valuation and the ranking of the charge(s).
         (11)   If warrants are issued, the objects for which the funds from conversions of warrants
                are proposed to be used.


      (B) Requirement of funds:
         (1)    Where the issuer proposes to undertake more than one activity or project, such as
                diversification, modernisation, expansion, etc., the total project cost activity-wise
                or project wise, as the case may be.
         (2)    Where the issuer is implementing the project in a phased manner, the cost of each
                phase, including the phase, if any, which has already been implemented, shall be
                separately given.
         (3)    Details of all material existing or anticipated transactions in relation to utilisation
                of the issue proceeds or project cost with promoters, promoter group, directors, key
                managerial personnel, 629[senior management] and group companies. The relevant
                documents shall be included in the list of material documents for inspection.


  (C) Funding plan (means of finance):
         (1)    An undertaking by the issuer confirming that firm arrangements of finance have
                been made through verifiable means towards seventy five per cent. of the stated
                means of finance for the project proposed to be funded from issue proceeds,
                excluding the amount to be raised through proposed issue and existing identifiable
                internal accruals.
         (2)    Balance portion of the means of finance for which no firm arrangement has been
                made without specification.
         (3)    Details of funds tied up and the avenues for deployment of excess proceeds, if any.


  (D) Appraisal:
         (1)    Scope and purpose of the appraisal, if any, along with the date of appraisal.

629
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.

                                                  275
     (2)     Cost of the project and means of finance shall be as per the appraisal report.
     (3)     Explanation of revision, if any, in the project cost and the means of finance after
             the date of issue of the appraisal report.
     (4)     Weaknesses and threats, if any, given in the appraisal report, by way of risk
             factors.
     (5)     Disclaimer clauses of the appraisal report, as applicable.


(E) Schedule of implementation: Schedule of implementation of the project in a tabular form
   and the progress made so far, giving details of land acquisition, civil works, installation of
   plant and machinery, trial production, date of commercial production and reasons for delay,
   if any.


(F) Deployment of Funds:
     (1)     Details of the sources of funds and the deployment of these funds on the project
             (where the issuer is raising capital for a project), up to a date not earlier than two
             months from the date of filing of the offer document, as certified by a statutory
             auditor of the issuer and the date of the certificate.
     (2)     Where the promoters’ contribution has been brought prior to the public issue,
             which is utilised towards means of finance for the stated objects and has already
             been deployed by the issuer, a cash flow statement from the statutory auditor,
             disclosing the use of such funds received as promoters’ contribution.


(G) Sources of Financing of Funds Already Deployed: Means and source of financing,
   including details of bridge loan or other financial arrangement, which may be repaid from
   the proceeds of the issue.


(H) Deployment of Balance Funds: Year-wise break-up of the expenditure proposed to be
   incurred on the project.


(I) Interim Use of Funds: A statement that net issue proceeds pending utilization (for the stated
   objects) shall be deposited only in the scheduled commercial banks.


(J) Expenses of the Issue: Expenses of the issue along with a break up for each item of
   expense, including details of the fees payable to separately as under (in terms of amount, as a
   percentage of total issue expenses and as a percentage of total issue size):

                                               276
        (1)         Lead manager(s) fees including underwriting commission
        (2)         Brokerage, selling commission and upload fees
        (3)         Registrars to the issue
        (4)         Legal Advisors
        (5)         Advertising and marketing expenses
        (6)         Regulators including stock exchanges
        (7)         Printing and distribution of issue stationary
        (8)         Others, if any (to be specified).


  (K) Basis for Issue Price:
        (1)         The basis for issue price, floor price or price band, as the case may be, on a
                    consolidated basis, after giving effect to any bonus or split of shares undertaken
                    after the last balance sheet date:
                      (a)          Earnings Per Share and Diluted Earnings Per Share, pre-issue, for the last
                                   three years (as adjusted for changes in capital).
                      (b)          Price to Earnings ratio pre-issue.
                      (c)          Average Return on Net Worth in the last three years.
                      (d)          Net Asset Value per share based on the last balance sheet.
                      (e)          Net Asset Value per share after the issue and comparison thereof with the
                                   issue price.
                      (f)          An illustrative format of disclosure in respect of the basis for issue price is
                                   given hereunder:


                      630
                            [


630
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to the substitution, the illustrative format table read as
under:
              (1)               Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) and Adjusted Diluted
                                EPS
                                (a) Financial Year 1                                       ` 0.41
                                (b) Financial Year 2                                       ` 8.39
                                (c) Financial Year 3                                       ` 13.82
                                (d) Weighted Average                                       ` 10.94
              (2)               Price to Earnings Ratio (P/E) in relation to Issue Price
                                (a) Based on Financial Year 3 EPS                          37.63
                                (b) Industry P/E
                                (i) Highest                                                61.2
                                (ii) Lowest                                                0.8
                                (iii) Average                                              25.3
                                (*Indicate relevant source)
              (3)               Return on Net Worth
                                (a) Financial Year 1                                       27.36 per cent.


                                                                 277
                   Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) and
          (1)      Adjusted Diluted EPS


                   (a)                          Financial Year 1                     ₹ 0.41**


                   (b)                          Financial Year 2                     ₹ 8.39 **


                   (c)                          Financial Year 3                     ₹ 13.82 **


                   (d)                          Weighted Average

                   Price to Earnings Ratio (P/E) in relation to
          (2)      Issue Price


                   (a)      Based on Financial Year 3 EPS                            37.63


                   (b)      Industry P/E

                   (i)                                Highest                        61.2


                   (ii)                               Lowest                         0.8


                   (iii)                              Average                        25.3

                   (*Indicate relevant source)

          (3)      Return on Net Worth


                   (a) Financial Year 1                                              27.36 per
                                                                                     cent.**

                   (b) Financial Year 2                                              28.77 per
                                                                                     cent. **

                   (c) Financial Year 3                                              33.45 per


      (b) Financial Year 2                                         28.77 per cent.
      (c) Financial Year 3                                         33.45 per cent.
      (d) Weighted Average                                         30.88 per cent.
(4)   Net Asset Value
      (a) As at last day of Financial Year 3                       ` 46.40
      (b) After issue                                              ` 94.29
      (c) Issue price                                              ` 520.00




                                               278
                                                                                            cent. **

                                   (d) Weighted Average


                           (4)     Net Asset Value


                                   (a)   As at last day of Financial Year 3                 ₹ 46.40


                                   (b)   After issue                                        ₹ 94.29


                                   (c)   Issue price                                        ₹ 520.00



                                                                                                        ]


                        * Formula or basis for calculation of these financial ratios to also be
                      disclosed.
                631
                      [**The entries shown in the above table are for illustrative purposes only. Lead
                      manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves before
                      assigning weights.]


                  (g)     Comparison of accounting ratios of the issuer as mentioned in items (a) to
                          (f) above with the industry average and with the accounting ratios of the
                          peer group (i.e. companies of comparable size in the same industry),
                          indicating the source from which industry average and accounting ratios of
                          the peer group has been taken. In this regard, the following shall be
                          ensured:
                                  Consistency in comparison of financial ratios of issuer with
                                   companies in the peer group, i.e., ratios on consolidated basis
                                   (wherever applicable) of issuer shall be compared with ratios on
                                   consolidated    basis     (wherever   applicable)   of   peer   group,
                                   respectively.




631
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                       279
                             Financial information relating to companies in the peer group shall be
                             extracted from the regulatory filings made by such companies to compute
                             the corresponding financial ratios.
                       (h)   The fact of dilution of financial ratios consequent upon issue of bonus
                             shares, if any, and justification of the issue price after taking into account
                             the diluted ratios with reference to the expanded capital.
                       (i)   The following statement in case of a book built issue :
                             "The price band/floor price/issue price has been determined by the issuer
                             in consultation with the lead manager(s), on the basis of book-building."
                       (j)   The following statement In case of a fixed price issue :
                             "The issue price has been determined by the issuer in consultation with the
                             lead manager(s) and justified by the issuer in consultation with the lead
                             manager(s) on the basis of the above information.”
                       (k)   Accounting ratios in support of basis of the issue price shall be calculated
                             after giving effect to the consequent increase in capital on account of
                             compulsory conversions outstanding, as well as on the assumption that the
                             options outstanding, if any, to subscribe for additional capital will be
                             exercised.
            (2)      Issue of debt instruments bearing interest less than the bank rate: Whenever fully
                     convertible debt instruments are issued bearing interest at a rate less than the bank
                     rate, disclosures about the price that would work out to the investor, taking into
                     account the notional interest loss on the investment from the date of allotment of
                     fully convertible debt instruments to the date(s) of conversions).
      632
            [(3) For all the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) disclosed in the offer document, the
                  Issuer Company and the lead merchant bankers (LMs) shall ensure the following:
                    (a) KPIs disclosed in the offer document and the terms used in KPIs shall be
                         defined consistently and precisely in the “Definitions and Abbreviations”
                         section of the offer document using simple English terms /phrases so as to
                         enable easy understanding of the contents. Technical terms, if any, used in
                         explaining the KPIs shall be further clarified in simple terms.
                    (b) KPIs disclosed in the offer document shall be approved by the Audit
                         Committee of the Issuer Company.


632
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022, and shall be applicable for all issues where Red Herring
Prospectus is filed with the Registrars of Companies on or after the 21.11.2022.

                                                      280
(c) KPIs disclosed in the offer document shall be certified by the statutory
    auditor(s) or Chartered Accountants or firm of Charted Accountants, holding a
    valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered
    Accountants of India or by Cost Accountants, holding a valid certificate issued
    by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Cost Accountants of India.
(d) Certificate issued with respect to KPIs shall be included in the list of material
    documents for inspection.
(e) For each KPI being disclosed in the offer document, the details thereof shall be
    provided for period which will be co-terminus with the period for which the
    restated financial information is disclosed in the offer document.
(f) KPIs disclosed in the offer document should be comprehensive and
    explanation shall be provided on how these KPIs have been used by the
    management historically to analyse, track or monitor the operational and/or
    financial performance of the Issuer Company.
(g) Comparison of KPIs over time shall be explained based on additions or
    dispositions to the business, if any. For e.g. in case the Issuer Company has
    undertaken a material acquisition or disposition of assets / business for the
    periods that are covered by the KPIs, the KPIs shall reflect and explain the
    same.
(h) For ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section, the following disclosures shall be made:
   (i) Disclosure of all the KPIs pertaining to the Issuer Company that have been
       disclosed to its investors at any point of time during the three years
       preceding to the date of filing of the DRHP / RHP.
  (ii) Confirmation by the Audit Committee of the Issuer Company that verified
       and audited details for all the KPIs pertaining to the Issuer Company that
       have been disclosed to the earlier investors at any point of time during the
       three years period prior to the date of filing of the DRHP / RHP are
       disclosed under ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section of the offer document.
  (iii) Issuer Company in consultation with the lead merchant banker may make
       disclosure of any other relevant and material KPIs of the business of the
       Issuer Company as it deems appropriate that have a bearing for arriving at
       the basis for issue price.
  (iv) Cross reference of KPIs disclosed in other sections of the offer document to
       be provided in the ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section of the offer document.



                                    281
       (v) For the KPIs disclosed under the ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section, disclosure
            of the comparison with Indian listed peer companies and/ or global listed
            peer companies, as the case may be (wherever available). The set of peer
            companies shall include companies of comparable size, from the same
            industry and with similar business model (if one to one comparison is not
            possible, appropriate notes to explain the differences may be included).
    (i) The Issuer Company shall continue to disclose the KPIs which were disclosed
         in the ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section of the offer document, on a periodic basis,
         at least once in a year (or for any lesser period as determined by the Issuer
         Company), for a duration that is at least the later of (i) one year after the listing
         date or period specified by the Board; or (ii) till the utilization of the issue
         proceeds as per the disclosure made in the objects of the issue section of the
         prospectus. Any change in these KPIs, during the aforementioned period, shall
         be explained by the Issuer Company. The ongoing KPIs shall continue to be
         certified by a member of an expert body as per clause 3(c).
(4) For issue price, floor price or price band, as the case may be, disclosed in the offer
    document, the Issuer Company and the lead merchant banker (LMs) shall disclose
    the details with respect to the following:
      (a) Price per share of Issuer Company based on primary / new issue of shares
          (equity/convertible securities), excluding shares issued under ESOP/ESOS
          and issuance of bonus shares, during the 18 months preceding the date of
          filing of the DRHP / RHP, where such issuance is equal to or more than 5 per
          cent of the fully diluted paid-up share capital of the Issuer Company
          (calculated based on the pre-issue capital before such transaction/s and
          excluding employee stock options granted but not vested), in a single
          transaction or multiple transactions combined together over a span of rolling
          30 days; and
      (b) Price per share of Issuer Company based on secondary sale / acquisition of
          shares (equity/convertible securities), where promoter / promoter group
          entities or shareholder(s) selling shares through offer for sale in IPO or
          shareholder(s) having the right to nominate director(s) in the Board of the
          Issuer Company are a party to the transaction (excluding gifts), during the 18
          months preceding the date of filing of the DRHP / RHP, where either
          acquisition or sale is equal to or more than 5 per cent of the fully diluted
          paid-up share capital of the Issuer Company (calculated based on the pre-

                                       282
   issue capital before such transaction/s and excluding employee stock options
   granted but not vested), in a single transaction or multiple transactions
   combined together over a span of rolling 30 days .


   Note: 1. In case there are no such transactions to report under (a) and (b),
   then the information shall be disclosed for price per share of the Issuer
   Company based on last 5 primary or secondary transactions (secondary
   transactions where promoter / promoter group entities or shareholder(s)
   selling shares through offer for sale in IPO or shareholder(s) having the right
   to nominate director(s) in the Board of the Issuer Company, are a party to the
   transaction), not older than 3 years prior to the date of filing of the DRHP /
   RHP, irrespective of the size of transactions.
   2. Price per share disclosed, shall be adjusted for corporate actions e.g. split,
   bonus etc. done by the Issuer Company.
(c) Floor price and cap price being [●] times the weighted average cost of
   acquisition (WACA) based on primary/ secondary transaction(s) as disclosed
   in terms of clause (a) and (b) or Note 1 above, shall be disclosed in the
   following manner:
      Past Transactions       WACA       IPO       Floor IPO        Cap
                              (in Rs.)   Price in Rs. [●] Price in Rs.
                                                          [●]
      WACA of Primary                    [●] times        [●] times
      issuance
      WACA                of             [●] times           [●] times
      Secondary
      transactions
(d) Detailed explanation for offer price / cap price being [●] times of WACA of
   Primary issuance price / Secondary transaction price, along with comparison
   of Issuer Company’s KPIs and financials ratios for the last three full financial
   years and stub period (if any) included in the offer document.
(e) Explanation for offer price / cap price being [●] times of WACA of Primary
   issuance price / Secondary transaction price in view of the external factors
   which may have influenced the pricing of the issue, if any.
(f) Table at para (c) above shall be disclosed in the Price Band Advertisement
   under ‘Risks to Investors’ section. Recommendation of a Committee of
   Independent Directors to be included in the price band advertisement stating
   that the price band is justified based on quantitative factors / KPIs disclosed

                              283
                         in ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section vis-à-vis the WACA of primary issuance /
                         secondary transaction(s) disclosed in ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section.]


  (L) Tax Benefits: Any special tax benefits (under direct and indirect tax laws) for the issuer and
          its shareholders and its material subsidiaries identified in accordance with the Securities and
          Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
          2015.


(10)        About the Issuer:
633
      [
      (A) Industry Overview
            If extract of any industry report is disclosed in the offer document, the complete industry
            report shall be provided as part of the material documents.]


      (B) Business Overview
            (1)    Details of the business of the issuer:
                   (a)    Primary business of the Issuer;
                   (b)    Plant, machinery, technology, process, etc.
                   (c)    Description of subsisting collaborations,, any performance guarantee or
                          assistance in marketing by the collaborators, infrastructure facilities for raw
                          materials and utilities like water, electricity, etc.
                   (d)    Products or services of the issuer:
                            (i)     Nature of the product(s)/services, and the end users.
                            (ii)    Approach to marketing of products and services


            (2)    Business Strategy: Description of the business strategy of the issuer, without any
                   forecast of projections relating to the financial performance of the issuer


            (3)    Capacity and Capacity Utilisation: A table shall be incorporated giving the
                   existing installed capacities for each product, capacity utilisation for such products
                   in the previous three years.


            (4)    Intellectual Property Rights:

633
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023 for the words and symbol “(A) Industry Overview”.

                                                       284
          (a)     If the issuer is entitled to certain intellectual property rights such as
                  trademarks, brand names, etc. whether the same are legally held by the issuer
                  and whether all formalities in this regard have been complied with.
          (b)     In case any of the material intellectual property rights are not registered in the
                  name of the issuer, the name of the entity with which these are registered.
          (c)     In case the intellectual property rights are registered in the name of an entity
                  in which the promoters are interested, the salient features of the agreement
                  entered into for the use of the intellectual property rights by the issuer.


   (5)    Property: Details of its material properties


(C) Key Industry-Regulations (if applicable):


(D) History and Corporate Structure of the issuer:
   (1)    History including the following details:
          (a)    Details of the issuer such as the date of incorporation, date of
                 commencement of business, date of conversion of partnership into limited
                 company or private limited company to public limited company, as
                 applicable, dates on which names have been changed, if applicable, reasons
                 for change of name, changes in registered offices of the issuer and reasons
                 thereof.
          (b)    Details of the major events in the history of the issuer, such as:
                  (i)       Significant financial or strategic partnerships
                  (ii)      Time/cost overrun in setting up projects
                  (iii)     Capacity/facility creation, location of plants
                  (iv)      launch of key products or services, entry in new geographies or exit
                            from existing markets
                  (v)       Key awards, accreditations or recognition
                  (vi)      Defaults or rescheduling/ restructuring of borrowings with financial
                            institutions/ banks
          (c)    Details      regarding     material     acquisitions        or   divestments    of
                 business/undertakings, mergers, amalgamation, any revaluation of assets
                 etc., if any, in the last ten years.




                                             285
             (2)     Main objects as set out in the Memorandum of Association of the issuer and dates
                    on which the Memorandum of Association of the issuer has been amended citing
                    the details of such amendments in the last ten years


             (3)    Details regarding holding company, subsidiary/subsidiaries and joint venture(s), if
                    applicable, of the issuer including:
                    (a)     Name of the holding company/subsidiary/joint venture;
                    (b)     nature of business;
                    (c)     capital structure;
                    (d)     shareholding of the issuer;
                    (e)     amount of accumulated profits or losses of the subsidiary(ies) not
                            accounted for by the issuer.


      (E) Shareholders' agreements and other agreements:
             (a)    Key terms of all subsisting shareholders’ agreements, if any (to be provided even if
                    the issuer is not a party to such an agreement, but is aware of such an agreement).
                                                                                             634
             (b)    Any agreement entered into by a key managerial personnel                       [or senior
                    management] or director or promoter or any other employee of the issuer, either
                    by themselves or on behalf of any other person, with any shareholder or any other
                    third party with regard to compensation or profit sharing in connection with
                    dealings in the securities of the issuer.
             (c)    Guarantees, if any, given to third parties by the promoter offering its shares in the
                    proposed offer for sale, stating reasons, amount, obligations on the issuer, period of
                    guarantee, financial implications in case of default, security available,
                    consideration etc.
             (d)    Key terms. dates, parties to and general nature of any other subsisting material
                    agreements including with strategic partners, joint venture partners and/or financial
                    partners, entered into, other than in the ordinary course of business of the issuer.
      635
            [(da)   Details of agreements required to be disclosed under Clause 5A of paragraph A of
                    part A of Schedule III of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
                    Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.]



634
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
635
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                      286
         (e)    All such shareholders' agreements and other agreements shall be included in the list
                of material contracts as required under 636[sub-item (1) of Item (18)].


      (F) Management:
         (a)    Board of Directors:
                (i)     Name, Director Identification Number, date of birth, age, qualifications,
                        experience, address, occupation and date of expiration of the current term of
                        office of manager, managing director, and other directors (including nominee
                        directors and, whole-time directors), period of directorship, and their
                        directorships in other companies.
                (ii)    For each person, details of current and past directorship(s) in listed
                        companies whose shares have been/were suspended from being traded on
                        any of the stock exchanges, during his/her tenure, as follows:
                           (a) Name of the Company:
                           (b) Listed on (give names of the stock exchange(s)):
                           (c) Date of suspension on the stock exchanges:
                           (d) If trading suspended for more than three months, reasons for
                               suspension and period of suspension.
                           (e) If the suspension of trading revoked,           the date of revocation of
                               suspension.
                           (f) Term (along with relevant dates) of the director in the above
                               company(ies).
                         (The above details shall be given for the preceding five years. In case of
                         fast track issues filed under the provisions of these regulations, the period
                         of five years shall be reckoned on the date of filing of the offer document.)
                (iii)   For each person, details of current and past directorship(s) in listed
                        companies which have been/were delisted from the stock exchange(s), during
                        his/her tenure, as follows:
                              Name of the Company:
                              Listed on [give name of the stock exchange(s)]:
                              Date of delisting on the stock exchange(s):
                              Compulsory or voluntary delisting:



636
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words, numbers and symbols “sub-item (1) of Item (17)”.

                                                      287
                              Reasons for delisting:
                              If relisted, date of relisting on [give name of the stock exchange(s)]
                              Term (along with relevant dates) of the director in the above
                               company/companies.
                   (iv) Nature of any family relationship between any of the directors or any of the
                       directors and key managerial personnel 637[or senior management].
                   (v) Any arrangement or understanding with major shareholders, customers,
                       suppliers or others, pursuant to which of the directors was selected as a
                       director or member of senior management.
                   (vi) Details of service contracts entered into by the directors with the issuer
                       providing for benefits upon termination of employment and a distinct
                       negative statement in the absence of any such contract.
                   (vii) Details of borrowing powers.


        (b)     Compensation of Managing Directors and/or Whole-time Directors:
                   (i) The dates, parties to, and general nature of every contract appointing or
                       fixing the remuneration of a Director, Whole-time Director, Managing
                       Director or Manager entered into in the preceding two years. During the last
                       financial year, the amount of compensation paid, and benefits in kind granted
                       on an individual basis to all such persons, by the issuer for services in all
                       capacities to the issuer and remuneration paid or payable by subsidiary or
                       associate company (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013). The
                       disclosure shall also cover contingent or deferred compensation accrued for
                       the year, even if the compensation is payable at a later date.
                   (ii) If any portion of the compensation was paid pursuant to a bonus or profit-
                       sharing plan, a brief description of the plan and the basis upon which the
                       directors participate in the plan.
                   (iii) All such contracts shall be included in the list of material contracts required
                       under 638[sub-item (1) of Item (18)].
        (c)     Shareholding of directors, including details of qualification shares held by them, if
                applicable.


637
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
638
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words, numbers and symbols “sub-item (1) of Item (17)”.

                                                    288
       (d)      Interest of Directors:
             i) Nature and extent of interest, if any, of every director in the issuer, including in any
                property acquired or proposed to be acquired of the issuer or by the issuer or in the
                promotion or formation of the issuer.
             ii) Where the interest of such a director consists in being a member of a firm or
                company, the nature and extent of the interest of the firm or company, with a
                statement of all sums paid or agreed to be paid to him or to the firm or company in
                cash or shares or otherwise by any person either to induce him to become, or to
                qualify him as, a director, or otherwise for services rendered by him or by the firm
                or company, in connection with the promotion or formation of the issuer shall be
                disclosed.
       (e)      Change, if any, in the directors during the last three years, and reasons, thereof.
       (f)      Management Organisation Structure.
       (g)      Corporate Governance:
                (i)     A statement that the issuer has complied with the requirements of corporate
                        governance relating to the composition of its board of directors,
                        constitution of committees such as audit committee, nomination and
                        remuneration committee, stakeholders relationship committee, etc., as
                        provided under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
                        Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
                (ii)    Details relating to the issuer's audit committee, nomination and
                        remuneration committee, stakeholders’ relationship committee and risk
                        management committee (if applicable) including the names of committee
                        members and the terms of reference under which the committees operate.
       (h)      Key Managerial Personnel 639[and Senior Management]:
                (i)     Details of the key managerial personnel 640[and senior management]
                        indicating name, date of joining, qualification, term of office with date of
                        expiration    of   term   and    details   of   service   contracts   including
                        termination/retirement benefits, if any, details of previous employment, etc.




639
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
640
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.

                                                  289
               (ii)     Past business experience, and functions and areas of experience in the
                        issuer. Nature of any family relationship between any of the key managerial
                        personnel 641[and senior management].
               (iii)    Any arrangement or understanding with its major shareholders, customers,
                        suppliers or others, pursuant to which any of the key managerial personnel
                        642
                              [or senior management], was selected as a key managerial personnel.
               (iv)     During the last financial year, the amount of compensation paid, and
                        benefits in kind granted, to the key managerial personnel 643[and senior
                        management] on an individual basis, by the issuer for services in all
                        capacities to the issuer, including contingent or deferred compensation
                        accrued for the year, even if the compensation is payable at a later date.
               (v)      If any portion of the compensation or otherwise was paid pursuant to a
                        bonus or profit-sharing plan, a brief description of the plan and the basis
                        upon which the key managerial personnel 644[and senior management]
                        participate in the plan.
               (vi)     Status of each key managerial personnel 645[and senior management], as a
                        permanent employee or otherwise.
               (vii)    Shareholding of each key managerial personnel 646[and senior management]
                        in the issuer.
               (viii)   Changes in the Key Managerial Personnel 647[or senior management]: Any
                        change other than by way of retirement in the normal course in the key
                        managerial personnel 648[or senior management] in the preceding three
                        years




641
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
642
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
643
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
644
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
645
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
646
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
647
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
648
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.

                                                   290
                 (ix)     If the attrition of 649[key managerial personnel and senior management] is
                          high compared to the industry, reasons should be disclosed.
                 (x)      Employees:
                             Refer the page where disclosures regarding employees stock option
                              scheme/ employees stock purchase scheme of the issuer, if any, as
                              required by the Regulations or Regulations of the Board relating to
                              Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase
                              Scheme, is given.
                             Payment or Benefit to key managerial personnel                      650
                                                                                                        [and senior
                              management] of the issuer (non-salary related): Any amount or benefit
                              paid or given within the two preceding years or intended to be paid or
                              given to any officer and consideration for payment of giving of the
                              benefit.


      (G) Promoters/ principal shareholders:
         (a)     Where the promoters are individuals:
                 (i)    A complete profile of all the promoters, including their name, date of birth,
                        age, personal addresses, educational qualifications, experience in the business
                        or employment, positions/posts held in the past, directorships held, other
                        ventures of each promoter, special achievements, their business and financial
                        activities, photograph 651[and Permanent Account Number].
                 (ii)   A declaration confirming that the Permanent Account Number, Bank
                        Account Number(s) and Passport Number 652[Aadhaar card number and
                        driving license number] of the promoters have been submitted to the stock
                        exchanges on which the specified securities are proposed to be listed, at the
                        time of filing the draft offer document 653[***]
         (b)     Where the promoters are companies:



649
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “ key management personnel”.
650
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023.
651
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “, Permanent Account Number, Aadhaar
card number and driving license number”.
652
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
653
    The words “or draft letter of offer” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                       291
      (i)    Brief history of the promoters such as date of incorporation, change in
             activities and present activities.
      (ii)   History of the companies and the promoters of the companies. Where the
             promoters of such companies are again companies or bodies corporate, names
             of natural persons in control (i.e., holding fifteen per cent. or more voting
             rights) or who are on the board of directors of such bodies corporate.
      (iii) Details of change in control of the promoter companies, if any, including
             details of the persons who held the controlling interest in the preceding three
             years.
      (iv) Declaration confirming that the Permanent Account Numbers, Bank Account
             Numbers, the Company Registration Numbers and the addresses of the
             Registrars of Companies where the companies are registered have been
             submitted to the stock exchanges on which the specified securities are
             proposed to be listed, at the time of filing the draft offer document or draft
             letter of offer with them;


(c)   Where alternative investment funds or foreign venture capital investors registered
      with the Board, are identified as promoters, the following shall be applicable,
      (i)    Details of the Fund Manager;
      (ii)   Generic details of the Fund, which is the investor in the issuer company;
      (iii) Details such as total number of investors in the Fund, distribution of investors
             category - wise (institutional, corporate, individual etc.) and percentage stake
             held by each investor category;
      (iv) Details of companies funded by the Funds, namely:-
                      (a) Total number of companies funded;
                      (b) Distribution of such companies - country wise, holding period
                          wise, sector wise;
                      (c) Number of companies under the control of the Fund, directly or
                          indirectly;
                      (d) In respect of companies where such Funds have offered their shares
                          for lock-in as part of minimum promoter’s contribution:-
                                Name of the company
                                Date of listing on each stock exchange
                                Fund’s shareholding in the company as on the date of listing



                                          292
                                           Fund’s shareholding in the company as on the date of filing
                                            of the DRHP of the company that now seeks to get listed


                 (v)    Average holding period of the Fund’s investments;
                 (vi) Sector focus/core specialization of the Fund, if applicable.


        (d)      If the present promoters are not the original promoters and control of the issuer was
                 acquired in the preceding five years, details regarding the acquisition of control,
                 date of acquisition, terms of acquisition, consideration paid for acquisition and
                 compliance with the provisions of 654[***] the Securities and Exchange Board of
                 India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, as
                 applicable, and the Listing Agreement or the Securities and Exchange Board of
                 India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as
                 applicable.
        (e)      If there is no identifiable promoter, details of the shareholders who control
                 individually or as a group, fifteen per cent. or more of the voting rights of the
                 issuer and of persons, if any, who have the right to appoint director(s) on the board
                 of directors of the issuer.
        (f)      If the promoters do not have experience in the proposed line of business, that fact
                 shall be disclosed explaining how the proposed activities would be carried
                 out/managed.
        (g)      If the promoters have any interest in the issuer other than as promoters, brief
                 details of the interest.
        (h)      Full particulars of the nature and extent of the interest, if any, of promoter(s),
                 directors or group companies:
                 (i)    in the promotion of the issuer;
                 (ii)   in any property acquired by the issuer in the preceding three years or
                        proposed to be acquired by it.
                 (iii) where the interest of such a director or promoter consists in being a member
                        of a firm or company, the nature and extent of the interest of the firm or
                        company, with a statement of all sums paid or agreed to be paid to such
                        director or to the firm or company in cash or shares or otherwise by any


654
   The words, numbers and symbols “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares
and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 or” omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                     293
                     person either to induce such person to become, or to qualify such person as a
                     director, or otherwise for services rendered by such person or by the firm or
                     company, in connection with the promotion or formation of the issuer.
                (iv) in any transaction in acquisition of land, construction of building and supply
                     of machinery, etc. with full details of the transaction and the amount involved


       (i)      Payment or benefit to the Promoter of the Issuer: Any amount or benefit paid or
                given in the preceding two years or intended to be paid or given to any promoter or
                promoter group and consideration for payment of giving of the benefit.
       (j)      Brief details of material guarantees, if any, given to third parties by the promoters
                with respect to specified securities of the issuer.
       (k)      A list of all individuals and entities forming part of the promoter group of the
                issuer.
       (l)      If the promoters have disassociated themselves from any of the companies or firms
                during the preceding three years, the reasons thereof and the circumstances leading
                to the disassociation together with the terms of such disassociation.


   (H) Dividend policy: Dividend policy and mode of payment of dividend, details of dividend
       paid in the last three financial years and the stub period, as applicable, and the period
       between last audited period and the date of the filing the draft offer document / draft letter
       of offer/ offer document.


(11)   Financial Statements:


(I) Requirements in case Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) is applicable in the latest
period presented in Restated Financial Information
Financial information section of the offer document will be divided into two parts, viz., restated
financial information and other financial information. The restated and other financial information
should be complete in all respects. To avoid duplication of disclosures in the offer document,
appropriate use of cross reference may be made to the restated and other financial information.


   (A) Restated Financial information
       (i) Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS) prepared in accordance with Ind AS for three
             years and the stub period (if applicable) should be audited and certified by the



                                                  294
            655
                  [statutory auditor(s) or Chartered Accountants] who holds a valid certificate issued
            by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
            The stub period CFS shall be required, if Ind AS CFS for latest full financial year
            included in the offer document is older than six months from the date of filing of the
            draft offer document/offer document. The stub period should not end up to a date
            earlier than six months of the date of filing of the draft offer document/offer document.
            In accordance with Ind AS 34 Interim Financial Reporting, the group should present a
            complete Ind AS CFS for the stub period, except the issuer has been exempted from
            presenting comparatives for the stub period. CFS shall be prepared as per Companies
            Act, 2013 (as amended).
            (a) The CFS (including for the stub period if applicable) should be restated to ensure
                   consistency of presentation, disclosures and the accounting policies for all the
                   periods presented in line with that of the latest financial year/ stub period
                   presented. Similarly, significant errors, non-provisions, regrouping, other
                   adjustments, if any, should be reflected in the corresponding period. The changes
                   in accounting policies and the correction of errors, should be disclosed in
                   accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in
                   Accounting Estimates and Errors. Changes in estimates, if any, need not to be
                   restated, as they are events of that corresponding year. The issuer has an option to
                   present comparatives for the stub period.
            (b) SA 705 Modification to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report requires a
                   qualified opinion, adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion for material
                   misstatements. With respect to an eligible issuer, audit modifications, which are
                   quantifiable or can be estimated shall be adjusted in the restated financial
                   information in the appropriate period. In situations where the qualification cannot
                   be quantified or estimated, appropriate disclosures should be made in the notes to
                   account, explaining why the qualification cannot be quantified or estimated.
            (c) A reconciliation explaining the differences between the audited CFS equity and
                   profit (loss) and the restated CFS should be presented in a columnar format.




655
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “statutory auditor(s)”.

                                                   295
            (d) The 656[auditor or Chartered Accountants] shall issue an examination report on the
                restated and audited financial information in accordance with the Guidance Note
                issued by the ICAI from time to time.
            (e) Auditor should have a valid peer review certificate issued by the Peer Review
                Board of the ICAI as on the date of signing the restated financial information. If a
                new auditor holding a valid peer review certificate is appointed for the stub period,
                and the predecessor auditor did not hold a valid peer review certificate at the date
                of signing the last annual financial statement, then the last annual financial
                statement would need to be re-audited by the new auditor in accordance with
                applicable standards. The re-audit may exclude audit reporting matters on CARO,
                internal financial control and other pure regulatory matters. Where auditor earlier
                held a valid peer review certificate, but did not hold a valid certificate at the date of
                signing the restated financial information, the earlier certificate shall be considered
                valid provided there is no express refusal by the peer review board to renew the
                certificate and the process to renew the peer review certificate was initiated by the
                auditor.
            (f) Where an issuer does not have a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, in any
                financial year, the issuer shall present separate financial statements for that
                financial year by following the applicable requirements of a restated CFS.
            (g) List of the related parties and all related party transactions of the consolidated
                entities (whether eliminated on consolidation or not), which require disclosure
                under Ind AS 24 and/ or covered under section 188(2) of the Companies Act, 2013
                (as amended), as disclosed in the separate financial statement of the consolidated
                entities, should be disclosed in the restated financial information.
                   All funding arrangements including inter-se guarantees among the entities
                    consolidated; except contribution to equity share capital, shall be disclosed.
                    The important terms and conditions of the funding arrangement and fund
                    transfer restrictions, if any, should be disclosed in the restated financial
                    information.
            (h) In case where Ind AS is not applicable to the Company for any of the years the
                principles laid down in Circular No SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL/CIR/P/2016/47 of March




656
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “auditor”.

                                                   296
      31, 2016 or any other relevant circular issued by the Board from time to time, shall
      apply.


(ii) The separate audited financial statements for past three full financial years
   immediately preceding the date of filing of offer document of the issuer company and
   all its material subsidiaries should be made available on issuer’s website in accordance
   with the materiality thresholds in (b) below. Alternatively, relevant link should be
   provided to the financial statement of subsidiaries on the Issuer’s website. The link to
   the issuer’s separate financial statement should be specified in the offer document. For
   this purpose, subsidiaries shall be identified based on definitions in the Companies
   Act, 2013. The above requirements shall apply for the periods of existence of the
   parent-subsidiary relationship.
   (a) a certified English translated copy of the financial statements should be made
      available on the Company’s website for every entity consolidated whose financial
      statements are not presented in English.
   (b) The financial statements reported in any currency other than Indian Rupee shall be
      translated into Indian Rupee in accordance with Ind AS 21. The Effects of Changes
      in Foreign Exchange Rates. The financial statements of all foreign consolidated
      entities should be audited, unless they are not material to the CFS and the local
      regulation does not mandate audit. For this purpose, a consolidated entity shall be
      considered ‘material’ if it contributes 10% or more to the turnover or net-worth or
      profits before tax in the annual CFS of the respective year. Additionally, total
      unaudited information included in the in the CFS shall not exceed 20% of the
      turnover or net-worth or profits before tax of the CFS of the respective year. For
      the purpose of this clause, definition of turnover, net-worth and profits before tax
      should be as per Companies Act, 2013 (as amended).
   (c) The financial statements of foreign entities consolidated may be audited as per the
      requirements of local regulation applicable in the respective jurisdiction. However,
      in cases where the local regulation does not mandate audit, financial statements
      should be audited as per the auditing standards/ requirements applicable in India.
   (d) The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries may be acceptable in a GAAP
      other than Ind AS, if local laws require application of local GAAP.




                                       297
      (B) Other Financial Information
         (i) The following information shall be computed as per the Guidance Note issued by the
            ICAI from time to time and disclosed in other financial information
              Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted)
              Return on net worth
              Net Asset Value per share
              EBITDA
         (ii) If the proceeds, fully or partly, directly or indirectly, is to be used for acquisition of
            one or more material businesses or entities, the audited statements of balance sheets,
            profit and loss, cash flow for the latest three financial years and stub period (if
            available) prepared as per framework applicable to the business or subsidiary proposed
            to be acquired shall be included in the draft offer document/offer document. For this
            purpose, the proposed acquisition (covering all businesses or subsidiaries proposed to
            be acquired) shall be considered material if it will make 20% or more contribution in
            aggregate to either turnover, or net worth or profit before tax in the latest annual CFS.
            The issuer may voluntarily choose to provide financial statements of above
            acquisitions out of the proceeds of the issue even if they are below the above
            materiality threshold. 657[The issuer company may also voluntarily provide proforma
            financial statements to disclose the impact of such acquisition, for such financial
            periods as determined by the issuer company, provided such proforma financial
            statements are prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on assurance
            engagement or guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
            (ICAI) from time to time and certified by the statutory auditor or the chartered
            accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the
            ICAI).]      In cases where the general purpose financial statement of the
            businesses/entities to be acquired/divested are not available, combined/carved-out
            financial statements for that business/entity shall be prepared in accordance with
            658
                  [any guidance note, standard on assurance engagement or guidelines] issued by the
            ICAI from time to time. The combined/carved-out financials statements shall be
            audited by the auditor of the seller in accordance with applicable framework.




657
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
658
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “Guidance Note”.

                                                   298
      659
            [(iii) Proforma financial statements – The Issuer shall provide Proforma financial
                 statements, as certified by the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who hold a
                 valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered
                 Accountants of India (ICAI), of all the subsidiaries or businesses material to the
                 consolidated financial statements (individually or collectively) where the issuer or its
                 subsidiaries have made an acquisition or divestment including deemed disposal after
                 the latest period for which financial information is disclosed in the offer document but
                 before the date of filing of the offer document. For this purpose, the
                 acquisition/divestment would be considered as material if acquired/ divested business
                 or subsidiary in aggregate contributes 20% or more to turnover, net worth or profit
                 before tax in the latest annual CFS of the issuer. The Proforma financial statements
                 shall be prepared for at least the last completed financial year and the stub period (if
                 any). The Proforma financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with any
                 guidance note, standard on assurance engagement or guideline issued by the ICAI
                 from time to time and certified by the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who
                 hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI. The issuer
                 Company may voluntarily choose to provide proforma financial statements of
                 acquisitions or divestments (i) even when they are below the above materiality
                 threshold, or (ii) if the acquisitions or divestments have been completed prior to the
                 latest period(s) for which financial information is disclosed in the draft offer document
                 or the offer document. Furthermore, the Proforma financial statements may be


659
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-item (iii) read as under,-

             “Proforma financial statements – The Issuer shall provide Proforma financial statements, as certified by the
             statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of
             the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), of all the subsidiaries or businesses material to the
             consolidated financial statements where the issuer or its subsidiaries have made an acquisition or divestment
             including deemed disposal after the latest period for which financial information is disclosed in the offer
             document but before the date of filing of the offer document. For this purpose, the acquisition/divestment
             would be considered as material if acquired/ divested business or subsidiary in aggregate contributes 20% or
             more to turnover, net worth or profit before tax in the latest annual CFS of the issuer. The Proforma financial
             statements shall be prepared for the last completed financial year and the stub period (if any). The Proforma
             financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with Guidance Note issued by the ICAI from time to
             time and certified by the statutory auditor. The issuer Company may voluntarily choose to provide proforma
             financial statements of acquisitions even when they are below the above materiality threshold. In case of one
             or more acquisitions or divestments, one combined set of Proforma financial statements should be presented.
             Where the businesses acquired/ divested does not represent a separate entity, general purpose financial
             statement may not be available for such business. In such cases, combined/ carved-out financial statements
             for such businesses shall be prepared in accordance with Guidance Note issued by the ICAI from time to
             time.. Further, in case of non-material acquisitions/divestments disclosures in relation to the fact of the
             acquisition/divestment, consideration paid/received and mode of financing shall be certified by the statutory
             auditor of the issuer company or chartered accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer
             Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) appointed by the issuer company.”

                                                             299
       disclosed for such financial periods as determined by the issuer company. The issuer
       may also voluntarily include financial statements of the business or subsidiary
       acquired or divested, provided that such financial statements are certified by the
       auditor (of the business or subsidiary acquired or divested) or chartered accountants,
       who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI. In case of
       one or more acquisitions or divestments, one combined set of Proforma financial
       statements should be presented. Where the businesses acquired/ divested does not
       represent a separate entity, general purpose financial statement may not be available
       for such business. In such cases, combined/ carved-out financial statements for such
       businesses shall be prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on
       assurance engagement or guidelines issued by the ICAI from time to time. Further, in
       case of non-material acquisitions/divestments disclosures in relation to the fact of the
       acquisition/divestment, consideration paid/received and mode of financing shall be
       certified by the statutory auditor of the issuer company or chartered accountants, who
       hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI appointed by the
       issuer company.]




(C) Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations as
   reflected in the restated Ind AS CFS shall be provided in other financial information.


   (i) Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year or when applicable
       subsequent to the stub period: A statement by the directors whether in their opinion
       there have arisen any circumstances since the date of the last financial statements as
       disclosed in the offer document and which materially and adversely affect or is likely
       to affect within the next twelve months:
            a. the trading or profitability of the issuer; or
            b. the value of its assets; or
            c. its ability to pay its liabilities.
   (ii) Factors that may affect the results of operations.
   (iii) Discussion on the results of operations: This information shall inter-alia contain the
       following:
             a.     A summary of the past financial results after adjustments as given in the
                    restated financial statements for the past three full financial years and the



                                              300
               stub period (if any) containing significant items of income and expenditure
               shall be given.
         b.    A summary of major items of income and expenditure for the last three
               years and most recent audit period.
         c.    The income and sales on account of major product/ main activities.
         d.    In case, the other income constitutes more than 10% of the total income, the
               break-up of the same along with the nature of the income, i.e., recurring or
               non-recurring shall be stated.
         e.    If a material part of the income is dependent upon a single customer/supplier
               or a few major customers/suppliers, disclosure of this fact along with
               relevant data. Similarly if any foreign customer/supplier constitutes a
               significant portion of the issuer’s business, disclosure of the fact along with
               its impact on the business on account of exchange rate fluctuations.
         f.    In case the issuer has deviated from applicable accounting standards for
               recording sales and revenues, its impact may be analysed and disclosed.
         g.    The nature of miscellaneous income and miscellaneous expenditure for the
               interim period and the preceding years
(iv) Comparison of last three years and the stub period on the major heads of the profit and
   loss statement, including an analysis of reasons for the changes in significant items of
   income and expenditure shall also be given, inter-alia, containing the following:
         a. unusual or infrequent events or transactions including unusual trends on
              account of business activity, unusual items of income, change of accounting
              policies and discretionary reduction of expenses etc.
         b. significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to affect
              income from continuing operations;
         c. known trends or uncertainties that have had or are expected to have a material
              adverse impact on sales, revenue or income from continuing operations;
         d. expected future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case
              of events such as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that will
              cause a material change are known;
         e. the extent to which material increases in net sales or revenue are due to
              increased sales volume, introduction of new products or services or increased
              sales prices;
         f. total turnover of each major industry segment in which the issuer operated;



                                         301
             g. status of any publicly announced new products or business segment, if
                applicable;
             h. the extent to which business is seasonal;
             i. any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers;
             j. competitive conditions.
   (v) ‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis shall be based on the restated financial
       information for the last three years and the stub period.


(D) Capitalisation statement
   (i) Capitalisation Statement showing total borrowings, total equity, and the borrowing/
       equity ratios before and after the issue is made shall be incorporated. It shall be
       prepared on the basis of the restated CFS for the latest financial year or when
       applicable at the end of the stub period.
   (ii) In case of any change in the share capital since the date as of which the financial
       information has been disclosed in the offer document, a note explaining the nature of
       the change shall be given.
   (iii) An illustrative format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder


               Particulars                    Pre-issue at             As adjusted for the
                                                                         proposed issue
                                                                                           (` in
                                                                                         crores)
        Total borrowings
           Current borrowings*
           Non-current
           borrowings (including
           current maturity)*


        Total equity
           Equity share capital*
           Other equity*
        Total Capital
        Ratio: Non-current
        borrowings/ Total equity



                                            302
            *These terms shall carry the meaning as per Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
            (as amended).


(II) Requirements in case Indian GAAP is applicable in the latest period presented in
Restated Financial Information
Financial information section of the offer document shall be divided into two parts, viz., restated
financial information and other financial information. The restated and other financial information
should be complete in all respects. To avoid duplication of disclosures in the offer document,
appropriate use of cross reference may be made to the restated and other financial information.


      (A) Restated Financial information
         (i) Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS) prepared in accordance with Indian GAAP
            for three years and stub period (if applicable) should be audited and certified by the
            660
                  [statutory auditor(s) or Chartered Accountants] who holds a valid certificate issued
            by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
            The stub period CFS shall be required, if Indian GAAP CFS for latest full financial
            year included in the draft offer document/offer document is older than six months old
            from the date of filing of the draft offer document/offer document. The stub period
            should not end up to a date earlier than six months of the date of filing of the offer
            document. In accordance with AS 25 Interim Financial Reporting, the group should
            present a complete Indian GAAP CFS for the stub period, except the issuer has been
            exempted from presenting comparatives for the stub period. CFS shall be prepared as
            per the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 (as amended).
            (a) The CFS (including for the stub period if applicable) should be restated to ensure
                   consistency of presentation, disclosures and the accounting policies for all the
                   periods presented in line with that of the latest financial year/stub period presented.
                   Similarly, significant errors, non-provisions, regrouping, other adjustments, if any,
                   should be reflected in the corresponding period. Changes in estimates, if any, need
                   not to be restated, as they are events of that corresponding year. The issuer has an
                   option to present comparatives for the stub period. Appropriate disclosures for
                   correction of errors, changes in accounting policies and changes in accounting




660
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “statutory auditor(s)”.

                                                    303
                estimates should be made in accordance with AS 5 Net Profit or Loss for the
                Period, Prior Period Items and Changes in Accounting Policies.
            (b) SA 705 Modification to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report requires a
                qualified opinion, adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion for material
                misstatements. With respect to an eligible issuer, audit modifications, which are
                quantifiable or can be estimated shall be adjusted in the restated financial
                information in the appropriate period. In situations where the qualification cannot
                be quantified or estimated, appropriate disclosures should be made, in the notes to
                account, explaining why the qualification cannot be quantified or estimated.
            (c) A reconciliation explaining the difference between the audited CFS equity and
                profit (loss) and the restated CFS equity and profit (loss)should be presented in a
                columnar format.
            (d) The 661[auditor or Chartered Accountants] shall issue an examination report on the
                restated and audited financial information in accordance with the Guidance Note
                issued by the ICAI from time to time.
            (e) Auditor should have a valid peer review certificate issued by the Peer Review
                Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) as on the date of
                signing the restated financial information. If a new auditor holding a valid peer
                review certificate is appointed for the stub period, and the predecessor auditor did
                not hold a valid peer review certificate at the date of signing the last annual
                financial statement, then the last annual financial statement would need to be re-
                audited by the new auditor in accordance with applicable standards. The re-audit
                may exclude audit reporting matters on CARO, Internal financial control and other
                pure regulatory matters. Where auditor earlier held a valid peer review certificate,
                but did not hold a valid certificate at the date of signing the restated financial
                information, the earlier certificate shall be considered valid provided there is no
                express refusal by the peer review board to renew the certificate and the process to
                renew the peer review certificate was initiated by the auditor.
            (f) Where an issuer does not have a subsidiary, associate or joint venture in any
                financial year, the issuer shall present separate financial statements for that
                financial year by following the applicable requirements of a restated CFS.




661
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “auditor”.

                                                   304
   (g) List of the related parties and all related party transactions of the consolidated
      entities (whether eliminated on consolidation or not), which require disclosure
      under AS 18 and/ or covered under section 188(2) of the Companies Act, 2013 (as
      amended), as disclosed in the separate financial statement of the consolidated
      entities, should be disclosed in the restated financial information.
           All funding arrangements including inter-se guarantees among the entities
            consolidated; except contribution to equity share capital, shall be disclosed.
            The important terms and conditions of the funding arrangement and fund
            transfer restrictions, if any, should be disclosed in the restated financial
            information.
   (h) The following disclosures shall be made in the restated financial information on the
      basis of amounts recognized and measured as per Indian GAAP and in accordance
      with the Guidance Note of the ICAI issued from time to time:
           i. Disclosures as per AS 13
          ii. Disclosures as per AS 14


(ii) The separate audited financial statements for past three full financial years
   immediately preceding the date of filing of offer document of the issuer company and
   all its material subsidiaries should be made available on issuer’s website in accordance
   with the materiality thresholds in (b) below. Alternatively, relevant link should be
   provided to the financial statement of subsidiaries on the Issuer’s website. The link to
   the issuer’s separate financial statement should be specified in the offer document. For
   this purpose, subsidiaries shall be identified based on definitions in the Companies
   Act, 2013. The above requirements shall apply for the periods of existence of the
   parent-subsidiary relationship.
   (a) a certified English translated copy of the financial statements should be made
      available on the Company’s website for every entity consolidated whose financial
      statements are not presented in English.
   (b) The financial statements reported in any currency other than Indian Rupee shall be
      translated into Indian Rupee in accordance with Ind AS 21 The Effects of Changes
      in Foreign Exchange Rates. The financial statements of all foreign consolidated
      entities should be audited, unless they are not material to the CFS and the local
      regulation does not mandate audit. For this purpose, a consolidated entity shall be
      considered ‘material’ if it contributes 10% or more to the turnover or net-worth or
      profits before tax in the annual CFS of the respective year. Additionally, total

                                       305
                unaudited CFS shall not exceed 20% of the turnover or net-worth or profits before
                tax of the CFS of the respective year. For the purpose of this clause, definition of
                turnover, net-worth and profits before tax should be as per Companies Act, 2013
                (as amended).
            (c) The financial statements of foreign entities consolidated may be audited as per the
                requirements of local regulation applicable in the respective jurisdiction. However,
                in cases where the local regulation does not mandate audit, financial statements
                should be audited as per the auditing standards/ requirements applicable in India.
            (d) The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries may be acceptable in a GAAP
                other than Indian GAAP, if local laws require application of local GAAP.


      (B) Other Financial Information
         (i) The following information shall be computed as per the Guidance Note issued by the
            ICAI from time to time and disclosed in other financial information
           Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted)
           Return on net worth
           Net Asset Value per share
           EBITDA
         (ii) If the proceeds, fully or partly, directly or indirectly, is to be used for acquisition of
            one or more material businesses or entities, the audited statements of balance sheets,
            profit and loss, cash flow for the latest three financial years and stub period (if
            available) prepared as per framework applicable to the business or subsidiary proposed
            to be acquired shall be included in the draft offer document/offer document. For this
            purpose, the proposed acquisition (covering all businesses or subsidiaries proposed to
            be acquired) shall be considered material if it will make 20% or more contribution in
            aggregate to either turnover, or net worth or profit before tax in the latest annual CFS.
            The issuer Company may voluntarily choose to provide financial statements of above
            acquisitions out of the proceeds of the issue even if they are below the above
            materiality threshold. 662[The issuer company may also voluntarily provide proforma
            financial statements to disclose the impact of such acquisition, for such financial
            periods as determined by the issuer company, provided such proforma financial
            statements are prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on assurance



662
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                  306
                 engagement or guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
                 (ICAI) from time to time and certified by the statutory auditor or the chartered
                 accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the
                 ICAI.] In cases where the general purpose financial statement of the businesses/entities
                 to be acquired/ divested are not available , combined/ carved-out financial statements
                 for that business/entity shall be prepared in accordance with 663[any guidance note,
                 standard on assurance engagement or guidelines] issued by the ICAI from time to time.
                 The combined/carved-out financials statements shall be audited by the auditor of the
                 seller in accordance with applicable framework.
      664
            [(iii)Proforma financial statements –The Issuer shall provide Proforma financial
                 statements, as certified by the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who hold a
                 valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered
                 Accountants of India (ICAI), of all the subsidiaries or businesses material to the
                 consolidated financial statements (individually or collectively) where the issuer or
                 its subsidiaries have made an acquisition or divestment including deemed
                 disposal after the latest period for which financial information is disclosed in the
                 offer document but before the date of filing of the offer document. For this purpose,
                 the acquisition/divestment would be considered as material if acquired/ divested
                 business or subsidiary in aggregate contributes 20% or more to turnover, net worth or


663
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “Guidance Note”.
664
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-item (iii) read as under,-

             “(iii) Proforma financial statements – The Issuer shall provide Proforma financial statements, as certified by
             the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board
             of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), of all the subsidiaries or businesses material to the
             consolidated financial statements where the issuer or its subsidiaries have made an acquisition or divestment
             including deemed disposal after the latest period for which financial information is disclosed in the offer
             document but before the date of filing of the offer document. For this purpose, the acquisition/divestment
             would be considered as material if acquired/ divested business or subsidiary in aggregate contributes 20% or
             more to turnover, net worth or profit before tax in the latest annual CFS of the issuer. The Proforma financial
             statements shall be prepared for the period covering last completed financial year and the stub period (if
             any). The Proforma financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with Guidance Note issued by the
             ICAI from time to time and certified by the statutory auditor. The issuer Company may voluntarily choose to
             provide proforma financial statements of acquisitions even when they are below the above materiality
             threshold. In case of one or more acquisitions or divestments, one combined set of Proforma financial
             statements should be presented. Where the businesses acquired/ divested does not represent a separate entity,
             general purpose financial statement may not be available for such business. In such cases, combined/ carved-
             out financial statements for such businesses shall be prepared in accordance with Guidance Note issued by
             the ICAI from time to time. Further, in case of non-material acquisitions/divestments disclosures in relation
             to the fact of the acquisition/divestment, consideration paid/received and mode of financing shall be certified
             by the statutory auditor of the issuer company or chartered accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued
             by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) appointed by the issuer
             company.”

                                                              307
       profit before tax in the latest annual CFS of the issuer. The Proforma financial
       statements shall be prepared for at least the period covering last completed
       financial year and the stub period (if any). The Proforma financial statements
       shall be prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on assurance
       engagement or guidelines issued by the ICAI from time to time and certified by the
       statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the
       Peer Review Board of the ICAI. The issuer Company may voluntarily choose to
       provide proforma financial statements of acquisitions or divestments (i) even when
       they are below the above materiality threshold, or (ii) if the acquisitions or divestments
       have been completed prior to the latest period(s) for which financial information is
       disclosed in the draft offer document or the offer document. Furthermore, the Proforma
       financial statements may be disclosed for such financial periods as determined by the
       issuer company. The issuer may also voluntarily include financial statements of the
       business or subsidiary acquired or divested, provided that such financial statements are
       certified by the auditor (of the business or subsidiary acquired or divested) or chartered
       accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI.
       In case of one or more acquisitions or divestments, one combined set of Proforma
       financial statements should be presented. Where the businesses acquired/ divested does
       not represent a separate entity, general purpose financial statement may not be
       available for such business. In such cases, combined/ carved-out financial statements
       for such businesses shall be prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard
       on assurance engagement or guidelines issued by the ICAI from time to time. Further,
       in case of non-material acquisitions/divestments disclosures in relation to the fact of
       the acquisition/divestment, consideration paid/received and mode of financing shall be
       certified by the statutory auditor of the issuer company or chartered accountants, who
       hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI appointed by the
       issuer company.]


(C) Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations as
   reflected in the restated Indian GAAP CFS shall be provided in other financial
   information.
   (i) Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year or when applicable
       subsequent to the stub period: A statement by the directors whether in their opinion
       there have arisen any circumstances since the date of the last financial statements as



                                            308
   disclosed in the offer document and which materially and adversely affect or is likely
   to affect within the next twelve months :
         a. the trading or profitability of the issuer; or
         b. the value of its assets; or
         c. its ability to pay its liabilities.
(ii) Factors that may affect the results of operations.
(iii) Discussion on the results of operations: This information shall, inter-alia, contain the
   following:
         a. A summary of the past financial results after adjustments as given in the
             auditor’s report for the past three full financial years and the stub period (if
             any) containing significant items of income and expenditure shall be given.
         b. A summary of major items of income and expenditure for the last three years
             and most recent audit period
         c. The income and sales on account of major product/ main activities.
         d. In case the other income constitutes more than 10% of the total income, the
             break-up of the same along with the nature of the income, i.e., recurring or
             non-recurring shall be stated.
         e. If a material part of the income is dependent upon a single customer/supplier
             or a few major customers/suppliers, disclosure of this fact along with relevant
             data. Similarly if any foreign customer/supplier constitutes a significant
             portion of the issuer’s business, disclosure of the fact along with its impact on
             the business on account of exchange rate fluctuations.
         f. In case the issuer has deviated from statutorily prescribed manner for
             recording sales and revenues, its impact may be analysed and disclosed.
         g. The nature of miscellaneous income and miscellaneous expenditure for the
             interim period and the preceding years, if applicable.
  (iv) Comparison of last three years and the stub period on the major heads of the profit
      and loss statement, including an analysis of reasons for the changes in significant
      items of income and expenditure shall also be given, inter-alia, containing the
      following:
         a. unusual or infrequent events or transactions including unusual trends on
             account of business activity, unusual items of income, change of accounting
             policies and discretionary reduction of expenses etc.
         b. significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to affect
             income from continuing operations;

                                           309
             c. known trends or uncertainties that have had or are expected to have a material
                adverse impact on sales, revenue or income from continuing operations;
             d. expected future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case
                of events such as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that will
                cause a material change are known;
             e. the extent to which material increases in net sales or revenue are due to
                increased sales volume, introduction of new products or services or increased
                sales prices;
             f. total turnover of each major industry segment in which the issuer operated;
             g. status of any publicly announced new products or business segment;
             h. the extent to which business is seasonal;
             i. any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers;
             j. competitive conditions.
     (v) Management’s Discussion and Analysis shall be based on the restated financial
         information for the last three years and the stub period.


(D) Capitalisation statement
     (i) Capitalisation Statement showing total borrowings, total equity, and the borrowing/
         equity ratios before and after the issue is made shall be incorporated. It shall be
         prepared on the basis of the restated CFS for the latest financial year or when
         applicable at the end of the stub period.
     (ii) In case of any change in the share capital since the date as of which the financial
         information has been disclosed in the offer document, a note explaining the nature of
         the change shall be given.
     (iii) An illustrative format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder


               Particulars                    Pre-issue at             As adjusted for the
                                                                         proposed issue
                                                                                           (` in
                                                                                      Crores)
        Total borrowings
           Short term borrowings*
           Long term borrowings
           (including current



                                            310
                 maturity)*


             Total equity
                 Share capital*
                 Reserves and surplus*
                 Money received against
                 share warrants*
             Total Capital
             Ratio: Long term
             borrowings/ Total equity


                 *These terms shall carry the meaning as per Schedule III of the Companies Act,
                 2013 (as amended).


(III) Financial Information of the Issuer in further public offers:
     (i)     An issuer making a further public offer may disclose the financial information
             specified in clause (ii) of this sub-item, in lieu of information specified under sub-item
             (B) if:
             a. the issuer is making a further public offer through the fast track route in accordance
                 with applicable provisions of these regulations;
             b. the specified securities offered in further public offer are of the same class of those
                 already listed on a stock exchange;
             c. financial reports of the issuer are available on the website of any stock exchange or
                 on a common e-filing platform specified by the Board;
             d. there has not been any change in management of the issuer;
             e. specified securities of issuer have not been listed pursuant to relaxation granted
                 from clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulation)
                 Rules, 1957.
     (ii)    The issuer satisfying the conditions specified in clause (i) may disclose consolidated
             financial statements as disclosed under Companies Act, 2013.
     (iii)   A report by the auditors of the issuer on a limited review of the profit or loss and assets
             and liabilities (indicating changes in accounting policies, if any), as at a date not earlier
             than six months prior to the date of the opening of the issue, where audited accounts as
             at such date are not available. For this purpose, it shall be sufficient if:



                                                    311
       a. In the statement of the assets and liabilities, the main heads of assets and liabilities
          as provided in Part I of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013 have been
          provided. If an issuer is governed by a statute other than the Companies Act, 2013,
          the main heads of assets and liabilities as specified in such statute shall be provided
          in the statement of assets and liabilities.
       b. In the statement of profit or loss, the information required to be disclosed under the
          heads of income and expenditure as per Regulation 33 of the Securities and
          Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
          Regulations, 2015 in respect of quarterly financial information to be filed with the
          stock exchanges, has been provided.
(iv)   Material changes and commitments, if any, affecting financial position of the issuer.
(v)    Week-end prices for the last four weeks; current market price; and highest and lowest
       prices of equity shares during the period with the relative dates. If the equity shares of
       the issuer are listed on more than one stock exchange, the above information shall be
       provided for each stock exchange separately.
(vi)   Stock market quotation of shares/ convertible instruments of the company (high/ low
       price in each of the last three years and monthly high/low price during the last six
       months). If the equity shares of the issuer are listed on more than one stock exchange,
       the above information shall be provided for each stock exchange separately.
(vii) Accounting and other ratios: The following accounting ratios for each of the
       accounting periods for which financial information is given:
                 Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted)
                 Return on net worth
                 Net Asset Value per share
                 EBITDA
(viii) Capitalisation Statement:
       a. A Capitalisation Statement showing total debt, net worth, and the debt/ equity
          ratios before and after the issue is made.
       b. In case of any change in the share capital since the date as of which the financial
          information has been disclosed in the prospectus, a note explaining the nature of
          the change.
       c. An illustrative format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder:


       Particulars                    Pre-issue at                   As adjusted for the



                                             312
                                                                 proposed issue
                                                                                     (` in
                                                                                  Crores)
       Total borrowings
          Current borrowings*
          Non-current
          borrowings (including
          current maturity)*


       Total equity
          Share capital*
          Reserves and surplus*
          Money received against
          share warrants*
       Total Capital
       Ratio: Non-current
       borrowings/ Total equity


          *These terms shall carry the meaning as per Schedule III of the Companies Act,
          2013 (as amended).


(ix)   Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of
       Operations as reflected in the restated Indian GAAP CFS shall be provided in other
       financial information.
(x)    Overview of the business of the issuer.
(xi)   Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year or when applicable
       subsequent to the stub period: A statement by the directors whether in their opinion
       there have arisen any circumstances since the date of the last financial statements as
       disclosed in the offer document and which materially and adversely affect or is likely
       to affect within the next twelve months :
             a. the trading or profitability of the issuer; or
             b. the value of its assets; or
             c. its ability to pay its liabilities.
(xii) Factors that may affect the results of operations.



                                              313
(xiii) Discussion on the results of operations: This information shall, inter-alia, contain the
     following:
            a. A summary of the past financial results after adjustments as given in the
                auditor’s report for the past three full financial years and the stub period (if
                any) containing significant items of income and expenditure shall be given.
            b. A summary of major items of income and expenditure for the last three
                years and most recent audit period
            c. The income and sales on account of major product/ main activities.
            d. In case the other income constitutes more than 10% of the total income, the
                break-up of the same along with the nature of the income, i.e., recurring or
                non-recurring shall be stated.
            e. If a material part of the income is dependent upon a single customer/supplier
                or a few major customers/suppliers, disclosure of this fact along with
                relevant data. Similarly if any foreign customer/supplier constitutes a
                significant portion of the issuer’s business, disclosure of the fact along with
                its impact on the business on account of exchange rate fluctuations.
            f. In case the issuer has deviated from statutorily prescribed manner for
                recording sales and revenues, its impact may be analysed and disclosed.
            g. The nature of miscellaneous income and miscellaneous expenditure for the
                interim period and the preceding years, if applicable.
(xiv) Comparison of last three years and the stub period on the major heads of the profit and
     loss statement, including an analysis of reasons for the changes in significant items of
     income and expenditure shall also be given, inter-alia, containing the following:
           a.     unusual or infrequent events or transactions including unusual trends on
                  account of business activity, unusual items of income, change of accounting
                  policies and discretionary reduction of expenses etc.
           b.     significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to affect
                  income from continuing operations;
           c.     known trends or uncertainties that have had or are expected to have a
                  material adverse impact on sales, revenue or income from continuing
                  operations;
           d.     expected future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case
                  of events such as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that
                  will cause a material change are known;



                                            314
                     e.     the extent to which material increases in net sales or revenue are due to
                            increased sales volume, introduction of new products or services or
                            increased sales prices;
                     f.     total turnover of each major industry segment in which the issuer operated;
                     g.     status of any publicly announced new products or business segment;
                     h.     the extent to which business is seasonal;
                     i.     any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers;
                     j.     competitive conditions.


(12) Legal and Other Information:
      (A) Outstanding Litigations and Material Developments:
       (1) Pending Litigations involving the issuer/ its directors/ promoters/ subsidiaries:
                     (i)    All criminal proceedings;
                     (ii)   All actions by regulatory authorities and statutory authorities;
                     (iii) Disciplinary action including penalty imposed by SEBI or stock exchanges
                            against the promoters in the last five financial years including outstanding
                            action;
                     (iv) Claims related to direct and indirect taxes, in a consolidated manner, giving
                            the number of cases and total amount;
               665
                     [(v) Other pending litigations based on lower of threshold criteria mentioned
                            below–


                            (i) As per the policy of materiality defined by the board of directors of the
                              issuer and disclosed in the offer document; or
                            (ii) Litigation where the value or expected impact in terms of value, exceeds
                              the lower of the following:
                              (a)     two percent of turnover, as per the latest annual restated
                                      consolidated financial statements of the issuer; or
                              (b)     two percent of net worth, as per the latest annual restated
                                      consolidated financial statements of the issuer, except in case the
                                      arithmetic value of the net worth is negative; or


665
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-item (v) read as under:

        “(v)Other pending litigations -As per the policy of materiality defined by the board of directors of the
        issuer and disclosed in the offer document.”

                                                       315
                            (c)   five percent of the average of absolute value of profit or loss after
                                  tax, as per the last three annual restated consolidated financial
                                  statements of the issuer.]


      666
            [(1A) All criminal proceedings involving key managerial personnel and senior
                  management of the issuer and also the actions by regulatory authorities and
                  statutory authorities against such key managerial personnel and senior management
                  of the issuer shall also be disclosed.]
              (2) Outstanding dues to creditors:
                    (i)    Based on the policy on materiality defined by the board of directors of the
                           issuer, details of creditors which include the consolidated number of
                           creditors and the aggregate amount involved
                    (ii)   Consolidated information on outstanding dues to micro, small and medium
                           enterprises and other creditors, separately giving details of number of cases
                           and amount involved;
                    (iii) Complete details about outstanding overdues to material creditors along
                           with the name and amount involved for each such material creditor shall be
                           disclosed, on the website of the company with a web link thereto.


              (3) If any of the above mentioned litigations, material developments, dues to creditors
                  etc., arise after the filing the offer document, the facts shall be incorporated
                  appropriately in the offer document. In case there are no such cases, a distinct
                  negative statement is required to be made in this regard in the offer document.
                  Material developments since the date of the last balance sheet.
              (4) Disclosures pertaining to 667[wilful defaulters or fraudulent borrowers] in case
                  of a further public offer or a rights issue: If the issuer or any of its promoter or
                  director has been declared as a 668[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower], it
                  shall make the following disclosures with respect to each such person separately:
                  (a) Name of the person declared as a 669[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower];


666
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.
667
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulters”.
668
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
669
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.

                                                    316
                  (b) Name of the Bank declaring the person as a 670[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
                     borrower];
                  (c) Year in which the person was declared as a 671[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
                     borrower];
                  (d) Outstanding amount when the person was declared as a 672[wilful defaulter or a
                     fraudulent borrower];
                  (e) Steps taken, if any, by the person for removal of its name from the list of
                     673
                           [wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower];
                  (f) Other disclosures, as deemed fit by the issuer, in order to enable investors to
                     take an informed decision;
                  (g) Any other disclosure as specified by the Board.
           (5) The fact that the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a 674[wilful defaulter
                  or a fraudulent borrower] shall be disclosed prominently on the cover page with
                  suitable cross-referencing to the inside pages.
           (6) Disclosures specified herein shall be made in a separate chapter or section,
                  distinctly identifiable in the Index /Table of Contents.


      (B) Government approvals:
            (1)     Investment approvals (GoI/ RBI, etc., as applicable), letter of intent or industrial
                    license and declaration of the Central Government, Reserve Bank of India or any
                    regulatory authority about the non-responsibility for financial soundness or
                    correctness of the statements;
            (2)     All government and other approvals which are material and necessary for
                    carrying on the business and operations of the issuer and material subsidiaries.


(13) Information with respect to group companies




670
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
671
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
672
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
673
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulters”.
674
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.

                                                     317
      (A) 675[In case of an issuer not being a government company, statutory authority or corporation
         or any special purpose vehicle set up by any of them, the names and registered office
         address of all the group companies shall be disclosed in the Offer Document.
         The following information based on the audited statements in respect of top five group
         companies (based on market capitalization for listed/ based on turnover in case of unlisted)
         for the preceding three years shall be hosted on the website of the respective group
         company (listed/ unlisted):
               i)       reserves (excluding revaluation reserve);
               ii)      sales;
               iii)     profit after tax;
               iv)      earnings per share;
               v)       diluted earnings per share; and
               vi)        net asset value.

         The offer document shall refer the website where the details of the group companies shall
         be available.]
      (B) 676[***]
      (C) 677[***]

675
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as follows –
    “(A) In case of an issuer not being a government company, statutory authority or corporation or any special
    purpose vehicle set up by any of them, the following information for the last three years, based on the audited
    statements, in respect of all the group companies for past three years shall be given, wherever applicable, along
    with significant notes of auditors.
    (i) Date of Incorporation;
    (ii) Nature of activities;
    (iii) Equity Capital;
    (iv) Reserves (excluding revaluation reserve);
    (v) Sales;
    (vi) Profit after tax;
    (vii) Earnings per share and Diluted Earnings Per Share;
    (viii) Net Asset Value;
    (ix) In case of listed group companies, the highest and lowest market price of shares during the preceding six
    months; and
    (x) If any of the companies has made public or rights issue in the preceding three years, the issue price of the
    security, the current market price.”
676
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the omission, it read as follows –
      “(B) In case there are more than five listed group companies, the financial information may be restricted to the
      five largest listed group companies to be determined on the basis of the market capitalization one month before
      the date of filing the draft offer document or in case of a fast track issue, one month before the reference date
      referred to in Explanation to sub-regulation (2) of regulation 99 and in Explanation to sub-regulation (2) of
      regulation 156. In case there are less than five listed group companies, the financial information shall be given
      for all the listed group companies and in addition for the largest unlisted group companies (based on turnover)
      so that the total number of listed and unlisted group companies for which the information is required to be given
      does not exceed five.”




                                                         318
      (D) Any pending litigation involving the group company which has a material impact on the
         issuer.
      (E) 678(***)
      (F) 679(***)
      (G) Common Pursuits:
         (i) In case there are common pursuits amongst the group companies/
             subsidiaries/associates companies and the issuer, the reasons and justification for the
             same shall be spelt out and the conflict of interest situations shall be stated.
         (ii) The related business transactions within the group and their significance on the
             financial performance of the issuer.
         (iii) If any of the other group companies/subsidiaries/associate companies has business
             interests in the issuer then the amount of commercial business that the said company
             has /proposes to have with the issuer may be quantified. If no, a distinct negative
             statement may be incorporated to this effect.


(14) Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures:
        (A) Authority for the issue and details of resolution(s) passed for the issue.
        (B) A statement by the issuer that the issuer,                 promoters, promoter group, directors,
             person(s) in control of the promoter or issuer, if applicable, or selling shareholders are
             not prohibited from accessing the capital market or debarred from buying, selling or
             dealing in securities under any order or direction passed by the Board or any securities
             market regulator in any other jurisdiction or any other authority/court.




677
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the omission, it read as follows –
    “(C) In case there are no listed group companies, the financial information shall be given for the five largest
    unlisted group companies based on turnover.”
678
     Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the omission, it read as follows –
    “(E) Information regarding significant adverse factors related to the group companies and in particular regarding:
          (i)       whether the company has become a sick company within the meaning of the Sick Industrial
          Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1995 or is under winding up/insolvency proceedings;
          (ii)      whether the company has made a loss in the immediately preceding year and if so, the profit or loss
          figures for the immediately preceding three years.”
679
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the omission, it read as follows –
    “(F) Disclosure shall be made about group companies which had remained defunct and for which application was
    made to the Registrar of Companies for striking off the name of the company, during the five years preceding the
    date of filing draft offer document with the Board. The disclosure shall include reasons for the company having
    become defunct as also all pending litigations, if any, in respect of such companies.”




                                                         319
(C) A confirmation that the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or selling
     shareholders is in compliance with the Companies (Significant Beneficial Ownership)
     Rules, 2018.
(D) A confirmation whether any of the directors of the issuer are associated with the
     securities market in any manner, and if yes, any outstanding action against them
     initiated by the Board in the past five years.
(E) Eligibility of the issuer to enter the capital market in terms of these Regulations.
     (Details of compliance with eligibility requirements to make a fast track issue, if
     applicable.)
(F) Compliance with Part B of this Schedule, as the case may be, if applicable.
(G) Disclaimer clauses:
     (1)   The offer document shall contain the following disclaimer clause in bold capital
           letters:
           "It is to be distinctly understood that submission of the draft offer document/draft
           letter of offer/offer document to the Securities and Exchange Board of India
           (SEBI) should not in any way be deemed or construed that the same has been
           cleared or approved by SEBI. SEBI does not take any responsibility either for the
           financial soundness of any scheme or the project for which the issue is proposed
           to be made or for the correctness of the statements made or opinions expressed in
           the draft offer document/draft letter of offer/offer document. The lead
           manager(s), has certified that the disclosures made in the draft offer
           document/draft letter of offer/offer document are generally adequate and are in
           conformity with the Regulations. This requirement is to facilitate investors to
           take an informed decision for making investment in the proposed issue.


           It should also be clearly understood that while the issuer is primarily responsible
           for the correctness, adequacy and disclosure of all relevant information in the
           draft offer document/draft letter of offer/offer document, the lead manager(s) is
           expected to exercise due diligence to ensure that the issuer discharges its
           responsibility adequately in this behalf and towards this purpose, the lead
           manager(s) _______________ has furnished to SEBI a due diligence certificate
           dated ______________ in the format prescribed under Schedule V(A) of the
           Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
           Requirements) Regulations, 2018.



                                           320
                     The filing of the draft offer document/draft letter of offer/offer document does
                     not, however, absolve the issuer from any liabilities under the 680[Companies
                     Act, 2013] or from the requirement of obtaining such statutory or other
                     clearances as may be required for the purpose of the proposed issue. SEBI further
                     reserves the right to take up, at any point of time, with the lead manager(s) any
                     irregularities or lapses in the draft offer document/draft letter of offer/offer
                     document."
            (2)      Disclaimer Statement from the issuer and lead manager(s): A statement to the
                     effect that the issuer and the lead manager(s) accept no responsibility for
                     statements made otherwise than in the draft offer document/draft letter of
                     offer/offer document or in the advertisement or any other material issued by or at
                     the instance of the issuer and that anyone placing reliance on any other source of
                     information would be doing so at their own risk.
      (H) Disclaimer in respect of jurisdiction: A brief paragraph mentioning the jurisdiction
            under which provisions of law and the rules and regulations are applicable to the draft
            offer document/ draft letter of offer/ offer document.
      (I)   Disclaimer clause of the stock exchanges.
      (J)   Disclaimer clause of the Reserve Bank of India, the              Insurance Regulatory and
            Development Authority of India or of any other relevant regulatory authority.
      (K) Listing: Names of the designated stock exchange and other stock exchanges to which
            application has been made for listing of the specified securities offered in the present
            issue.
      (L) Consent of the directors, auditors, solicitors or advocates, lead manager(s), registrar to
            the issue, bankers to the issuer and experts.
      (M) Expert opinion obtained, if any.
      (N) Previous public or rights issues, if any, during the last five years:
            (1)      Closing date.
            (2)      Date of allotment.
            (3)      Date of refunds.
            (4)      Date of listing on the stock exchange(s).
            (5)      If the issue(s) was at premium or discount, the amount thereof.
      (O) Commission or brokerage on previous issues in last five years.



680
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbol “Companies Act, 2013]”.

                                                   321
(P) Following         particulars   in   regard    to   the   issuer   and   other   listed   group
      companies/subsidiaries/associates which made any capital issue during the last three
      years shall be given:
      (1) Name of the Company.
      (2) Year of Issue.
      (3) Type of Issue (public/rights/composite).
      (4) Amount of issue.
      (5) Date of closure of issue.
      (6) Date of allotment and date of credit of securities to the demat account.
      (7) Date of completion of the project, where object of the issue was financing the
      project.
      (8) Rate of dividend paid.
(Q) Performance vis-à-vis objects:
      (1)   Issuer:
            (a)   A list of all the public/rights issues made during the preceding five years,
                  along with the year of issue.
            (b)   Details of non-achievement of objects, with quantification of shortfall and
                  delays for such public/rights issues.
      (2)   Listed Subsidiaries/Listed Promoters:
            (a)   A separate paragraph entitled "Performance vis-à-vis objects - Last one
                  public/rights issue of subsidiaries/Listed Promoters ", indicating whether
                  all the objects mentioned in the offer document of the last one issue of
                  each of such companies during the preceding five years were met.
            (b)   If not, details of non-achievement of objects, with quantification of
                  shortfall and delays.
(R)   Price information of past issues handled by the lead manager(s) in the format given
      below:




                                             322
 5. In case the 30th/60th/90th calendar day is a holiday, data from previous trading day to be
 considered.
 681
       [6. Designated Stock Exchange as disclosed by the respective Issuer at the time of the issue
 shall be considered for disclosing the price information.]
(S) Stock market data for equity shares of the issuer, if listed:
        Particulars of:
              (1)   high, low and average market prices of the equity shares of the issuer during the
                    preceding three years;
              (2)   monthly high and low prices for the six months preceding the date of filing the
                    draft offer document with the Board which shall be updated till the time of filing
                    the offer document with the Registrar of Companies;
              (3)   number of shares traded on the days when high and low prices were recorded in
                    the relevant stock exchange(s) during the said period of (a) and (b) above and
                    indicating the total number of days of trading during the preceding six months
                    and the average volume of equity shares traded during that period and a
                    statement if the equity shares were not 682[frequently] traded;
              (4)   stock market data referred to above shall be shown separately for periods marked
                    by a change in capital structure, with such period commencing from the date the
                    relevant stock exchange recognises the change in the capital structure (e.g. when
                    the shares have become ex-rights or ex-bonus);
              (5)   market price of equity shares immediately after the date on which the resolution
                    of the board of directors approving the issue;




681
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
682
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “actively”.

                                                   323
                (6)     volume of securities traded in each month during the six months preceding the
                        date on which the offer document is filed with the Registrar of Companies; and
                (7)     volume of shares traded along with high, low and average prices of shares of the
                        issuer shall also be stated for respective periods.
                        Explanation: If the equity shares of the issuer are listed on more than one stock
                        exchange, the above information shall be provided for each stock exchange
                        separately. Average market prices in point (1) above should be calculated on
                        closing price on the stock exchange.


       (T) Mechanism evolved for redressal of investor grievances:
                (1)     arrangements or mechanism evolved by the issuer for redressal of investor
                        grievances including through SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES)
                (2)     number of investor complaints received during the preceding three years and the
                        number of complaints disposed off during that period
                (3)     number of investor complaints pending on the date of filing the draft offer
                        document
                (4)     number of investor complaints pending on the date of filing the draft offer
                        document in respect of the five largest (in terms of market capitalization) listed
                        group companies.
                (5)     time normally taken by the issuer for disposal of various types of investor
                        grievances.
                (6)     Disclosures prescribed under sub-clauses (2) to (5) shall also be made in regard
                        to the listed subsidiaries.
      683
            [(U) Exemption from complying with any provisions of securities laws, if any, granted by
       SEBI shall be disclosed.]
(15) Offering Information:
       (A)      Terms of the Issue:
              (a)     Statement that the shares issued in the issue shall be pari passu with the existing
                      shares in all respects including dividends. 684[In case of companies having SR
                      equity shares, a statement that the shares issued in the issue shall be pari passu with




683
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
684
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.

                                                       324
                the existing shares (excluding SR equity shares) in all respects including
                dividends.]
          (b)   Statement that in the case of offer for sale, the dividend for the entire year shall be
                payable to the transferees.
          (c)   Face value and issue price/ floor price/ price band.
          (d)   Rights of the instrument holders. 685[ In case of an issuer having SR equity shares,
                the special rights of such SR shareholders shall be disclosed alongwith the
                circumstances in which the SR equity shares shall be treated as ordinary equity
                shares.]
          (e)   Market lot.
          (f)   Nomination facility to investor.
          (g)   Period of subscription list of the public issue.
          (h)   Statement that “if, as prescribed, minimum subscription in the issue shall be 90%
                of the fresh issue portion” the issuer does not receive the minimum subscription of
                ninety per cent. of the offer through offer document (except in case of an offer for
                sale of specified securities) on the date of closure of the issue, or if the subscription
                level falls below ninety per cent. after the closure of issue on account of cheques
                having being returned unpaid (in case of rights issues) or withdrawal of
                applications, or after technical rejections, or if the listing or trading permission is
                not obtained from the stock exchanges for the securities so offered under the offer
                document, the issuer shall forthwith refund the entire subscription amount
                received. If there is a delay beyond fifteen days after the issuer becomes liable to
                pay the amount, the issuer and every director of the issuer who are officers in
                default, shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum."
          (i)   For Composite Issues: Statement that the requirement of ’minimum subscription’
                is satisfied both jointly and severally, i.e., independently for both rights and public
                issues, and that if the issuer does not receive the minimum subscription in either of
                the issues, the issuer shall refund the entire subscription received.
          (j)   Arrangements for Disposal of Odd Lots:
                (a) Any arrangements made by the issuer for providing liquidity for and
                    consolidation of the shares held in odd lots, particularly when such odd lots
                    arise on account of issues by way of rights, bonus, conversion of debentures or
                    warrants, etc., shall be intimated to the shareholders or investors.

685
   Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.29.07.2019.

                                                   325
                     (b) The issuer is free to make arrangements for providing liquidity in respect of
                         odd lot shares through any investment or finance company, broking firms or
                         through any other agency and the particulars of such arrangement, if any, may
                         be disclosed in the offer document related to the concerned issue of capital.
                     (c) The lead merchant banker shall ascertain whether the issuer coming for fresh
                         issue of capital proposes to set up trusts in order to provide service to the
                         investors in the matter of disposal of odd lot shares of the issuer held by them
                         and if so, disclosures relating to setting up and operation of the trust shall be
                         contained in the offer document.
             (d) Whenever any issue results in issue of shares in odd lots, the issuer, shall as far as
                   possible issue certificates in the denomination of 1-2-5-10-20-50 shares.
             (k)     Restrictions, if any, on transfer and transmission of shares or debentures and on
                     their consolidation or splitting.
             (l)     New Financial Instruments: Terms and conditions including redemption, security,
                     conversion and any other relevant features of any new financial instruments such as
                     deep discount bonds, debentures with warrants, secured premium notes etc.
             (m)     Allotment only in Dematerialised Form: A statement to the effect that specified
                     securities shall be allotted only in dematerialised form 686[***].


       (B)     Issue Procedure:
               (1)     Fixed price issue or book building procedure as may be applicable, including
                       details regarding bid form/application form, who can bid/apply, maximum and
                       minimum bid/application size, bidding process, bidding, bids at different price
                       levels, etc.
               (2)     Issue of securities in dematerialised form:
                       (a)   In case of a public issue or rights issue (subject to sub-regulation (1) of
                             regulation 91, the specified securities issued shall be issued only in
                             dematerialized form in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013. A
                             statement that furnishing the details of depository account is mandatory
                             and applications without depository account shall be treated as incomplete
                             and rejected. Investors will not have the option of getting the allotment of



686
   The symbol and words “, subject to the availability of the option to receive physical certificates of specified securities
in a rights issue for a period of six months from the date of coming into force of these regulations” omitted by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                            326
      specified securities in physical form. However, they may get the specified
      securities rematerialised subsequent to allotment.
(b)   Statement that the specified securities, on allotment, shall be traded on
      stock exchanges in demat mode only.
(c)   Statement that single bid from any investor shall not exceed the investment
      limit/maximum number of specified securities that can be held by such
      investor under the relevant regulations/statutory guidelines.
(d)   Statement that the correct procedure for applications by Hindu Undivided
      Families and the fact that applications by Hindu Undivided Families would
      be treated as on par with applications by individuals;
(e)   Applications by mutual funds:
       (i)    Statement under the heads "Procedure for applications by mutual
              funds" and "Multiple Applications" to indicate that a separate
              application can be made in respect of each scheme of an Indian
              mutual fund registered with the Board and that such applications
              shall not be treated as multiple applications.
       (ii)   Statement that applications made by an asset management company
              or a custodian of a mutual fund shall clearly indicate the name of
              the concerned scheme for which the application is being made.
(f)   Applications by non-resident Indians:
       (i)    Statement that "Non-resident Indian applicants may please note that
              only such applications as are accompanied by payment in free
              foreign exchange shall be considered for allotment under the
              reserved category. The non-resident Indians who intend to make
              payment through Non-Resident Ordinary (NRO) accounts shall use
              the form meant for Resident Indians and shall not use the forms
              meant for reserved category."
(g)   Application by ASBA investors:
        (i) Details of Application Supported by Blocked Amount process
              including specific instructions for submitting Application Supported
              by Blocked Amount.
        (ii) A statement that each application form shall bear the stamp of the
              syndicate     member/SCSBs/registrar         and   share    transfer
              agents/depository participants/stock brokers and if not, the same
              shall be rejected.

                                   327
(3)   Escrow mechanism for anchor investors: Escrow account of the issuer.
(4)   Terms of payment and payment into the escrow collection account by anchor
      investors.
(5)   Electronic registration of bids.
(6)   Build-up of the book and revision of bids. In this regard, it may be specifically
      disclosed that qualified institutional buyers and non-institutional investors can
      neither lower or withdraw their bids at any stage and retail individual investors
      can withdraw or revise their bids till issue closure date
(7)   Price discovery and allocation.
(8)   Signing of underwriting agreement.
(9)   Filing of the offer document.
(10) Announcement of pre-issue advertisement.
(11) Issuance of Confirmation of Allocation Note (“CAN”) and allotment in the
      Issue.
(12) Designated date.
(13) General instructions:
         (a)   Do’s and don’ts.
         (b) Instructions for completing the bid form.
         (c)   Bidders’ bank account details.
         (d) Bids by non-resident Indians or foreign portfolio investors, foreign
               venture capital investors on repatriation basis
(14) Payment instructions:
         (a)   Payment into escrow account of the issuer.
         (b)   Payment instructions for Application Supported by Blocked Amount.
(15) Submission of bid form.
(16) Other instructions:
         (a)   Joint bids in the case of individuals.
         (b)   Multiple bids.
         (c)   Instructions to the applicants to mention the Permanent Account
               Number of the sole / first holder in the application form, irrespective of
               the amount for which application or bid is made, along with the
               instruction that applications without Permanent Account Number would
               be rejected except where the requirement to hold a permanent account
               number has been specifically exempt under applicable law.
         (d)   Instances when an application would be rejected on technical grounds

                                      328
                          (e)      Equity shares in demat form with the depositories.
                          (f)      Investor’s attention shall also be invited to contact the compliance
                                   officer in case of any pre-issue or post-issue related problems regarding
                                   share certificates/demat credit/refund orders/ unblocking etc.
             (17) Disposal of applications.
             (18) Provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, relating to punishment for
                    fictitious applications, including to any person who:
                          (a)      makes or abets making of an application in a fictitious name to a
                                   company for acquiring, or subscribing for, its securities, or
                          (b)      makes or abets making of multiple applications to a company in
                                   different names or in different combinations of his/her name or surname
                                   for acquiring or subscribing for its securities, shall be punishable with
                                   fine and/or imprisonment for such amount and/or term as may be
                                   prescribed under section 447 of the Companies Act 2013.
             (19)    Interest on refund of excess bid amount, in case of anchor investors.
             (20) Names of entities responsible for finalising the basis of allotment in a fair and
                    proper manner.
             (21) Procedure and time of schedule for allotment and 687[***] demat credit.
             (22) Method of allotment as may be prescribed by the Board from time to time.
             (23) Letters of Allotment or refund orders or instructions to Self Certified Syndicate
                    Banks in Application Supported by Blocked Amount process. The issuer shall
                    ensure that “at par” facility is provided for encashment of refund orders for
                    applications other than Application Supported by Blocked Amount process.
             (24) Mode of making refunds:
                    (a)         The mode in which the issuer shall refund the application money to
                                applicants in case of an oversubscription or failure to list.
                    (b)         If the issuer proposes to use more than one mode of making refunds to
                                applicants, the respective cases where each such mode will be adopted.
                    (c)         The permissible modes of making refunds and unblocking of funds are as
                                follows:
                            (i)        In case of applicants residing in any of the centres specified by the
                                       Board: by crediting of refunds to the bank accounts of applicants



687
   The words and symbols “issue of certificates (for rights issues)/” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                         329
                  through electronic transfer of funds by or NACH (National
                  Automated Clearing House), as applicable, Direct Credit, RTGS
                  (Real Time Gross Settlement) or NEFT (National Electronic Funds
                  Transfer), as is for the time being permitted by the Reserve Bank of
                  India;
           (ii)   In case of other applicants: by dispatch of refund orders by
                  registered post/unblocking in case of ASBA
(25) Payment of Interest in case of delay in despatch of allotment letters or refund
     orders/instruction to self-certified syndicate banks by the registrar in the case of
     public issues:
     (a)   in case of a fixed price issue, a statement that the issuer shall allot
           securities offered to the public shall be made within the period prescribed
           by the Board. The issuer shall also pay interest at the rate of fifteen per
           cent. per annum if the allotment letters or refund orders have not been
           despatched to the applicants or if, in a case where the refund or portion
           thereof is made in electronic manner, the refund instructions have not been
           given to the clearing system in the disclosed manner within eight days
           from the date of the closure of the issue. However applications received
           after the closure of issue in fulfilment of underwriting obligations to meet
           the minimum subscription requirement, shall not be entitled for the said
           interest.
     (b)   In case of a book-built issue, a statement that the issuer shall allot
           securities offered to the public within the period prescribed by the Board.
           The issuer further agrees that it shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen per
           cent. per annum if the allotment letters or refund orders/ unblocking
           instructions have not been despatched to the applicants or if, in a case
           where the refund or portion thereof is made in electronic manner, the
           refund instructions have not been given to the clearing system in the
           disclosed manner within six days from the date of the closure of the issue.
     (c)   In case of a rights issue, a statement that the issuer shall allot securities
           offered to the shareholders within fifteen days of the closure of the rights
           issue. The issuer further agrees that it shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen
           per cent. per annum if the allotment letters or refund orders/ unblocking
           instructions have not been despatched to the applicants or if, in a case
           where the refund or portion thereof is made in electronic manner, the

                                     330
                         refund instructions have not been given to the clearing system in the
                         disclosed manner within fifteen days from the date of the closure of the
                         issue.
            (26) Undertaking by the issuer:
                  a)    The following undertaking by the issuer shall be disclosed:
                         (i)      that the complaints received in respect of the issue shall be attended
                                  to by the issuer expeditiously and satisfactorily;
                         (ii)     that all steps for completion of the necessary formalities for listing
                                  and commencement of trading at all stock exchanges where the
                                  securities are to be listed are taken within the period prescribed by
                                  the Board;
                         (iii)    that the issuer shall apply in advance for the listing of equities on
                                  the conversion of debentures/ bonds;
                         (iv)     that the funds required for making refunds/unblocking to
                                  unsuccessful applicants as per the mode(s) disclosed shall be made
                                  available to the registrar to the issue by the issuer;
                         (v)      that where refunds are made through electronic transfer of funds, a
                                  suitable communication shall be sent to the applicant within the
                                  specified period of closure of the issue giving details of the bank
                                  where refunds shall be credited along with amount and expected
                                  date of electronic credit of refund;
                         (vi)     that the promoters’ contribution in full, wherever required, shall be
                                  brought in advance before the Issue opens for public subscription
                                  and the balance, if any, shall be brought on a pro rata basis before
                                  the calls are made on public in accordance with applicable
                                  provisions in these regulations;
                         (vii)    that no further issue of securities shall be made till the securities
                                  offered through the offer document are listed or till the application
                                  monies are refunded on account of non-listing, under subscription,
                                  etc., other than as disclosed in accordance with 688[regulation 56];
                         (viii)   that adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all
                                  Applications Supported by Blocked Amount and to consider them



688
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word and numbers “Regulation 19”.

                                                    331
                   similar to non-ASBA applications while finalizing the basis of
                   allotment;
     b)    In case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, the issuer shall also give
           the following additional undertakings:
           (i)     it shall forward the details of utilisation of the funds raised through
                   the convertible debt instruments duly certified by the statutory
                   auditors of the issuer, to the debenture trustees at the end of each
                   half-year.
           (ii)    it shall disclose the complete name and address of the debenture
                   trustee in the annual report.
           (iii)   it shall provide a compliance certificate to the convertible debt
                   instrument holders (on yearly basis) in respect of compliance with
                   the terms and conditions of issue of convertible debt instruments,
                   duly certified by the debenture trustee.
           (iv)    it shall furnish a confirmation certificate that the security created
                   by the issuer in favour of the convertible debt instrument holders is
                   properly maintained and is adequate to meet the payment
                   obligations towards the convertible debt instrument holders in the
                   event of default.
           (v)     it shall extend necessary cooperation to the credit rating
                   agency/agencies for providing true and adequate information till
                   the debt obligations in respect of the instrument are outstanding.
     c)    A statement that the issuer reserves the right not to proceed with the issue
           after the bidding and if so, the reason thereof as a public notice within two
           days of the closure of the issue. The public notice shall be issued in the
           same newspapers where the pre-issue advertisement had appeared. The
           stock exchanges where the specified securities were proposed to be listed
           shall also be informed promptly.
     d)    a statement that if the issuer withdraws the issue at any stage including after
           closure of bidding, the issuer shall be required to file a fresh draft offer
           document with the Board.
(27) Utilisation of Issue Proceeds:
     (a)   A statement by the board of directors of the issuer to the effect that:




                                       332
                 (i)     all monies received out of issue of specified securities to the public
                         shall be transferred to a separate bank account other than the bank
                         account referred to in the Companies Act,2013;
                 (ii)    details of all monies utilised out of the issue referred to in sub-
                         item(i) shall be disclosed and continue to be disclosed till the time
                         any part of the issue proceeds remains unutilised under an
                         appropriate separate head in the balance sheet of the issuer
                         indicating the purpose for which such monies had been utilised;
                         and
                 (iii)   details of all unutilised monies out of the issue of specified
                         securities referred to in sub-item (i) shall be disclosed under an
                         appropriate separate head in the balance sheet of the issuer
                         indicating the form in which such unutilised monies have been
                         invested.
           (b)   For an issue other than an offer for sale or a public issue made by any
                 scheduled commercial bank or a public financial institution, a statement of
                 the board of directors of the issuer to the effect that:
                 (i)     the utilisation of monies received under promoters’ contribution
                         and from reservations shall be disclosed and continue to be
                         disclosed under an appropriate head in the balance sheet of the
                         issuer, till the time any part of the issue proceeds remains
                         unutilised, indicating the purpose for which such monies have been
                         utilised;
                 (ii)    the details of all unutilised monies out of the funds received under
                         promoters’ contribution and from reservations shall be disclosed
                         under a separate head in the balance sheet of the issuer, indicating
                         the form in which such unutilised monies have been invested
      (28) Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any:
           (a)   Investment by non-resident Indians.
           (b)   Investment by foreign portfolio investors.
           (c)   Investment by other non-residents.


(C)   Description of Equity Shares and Terms of the Articles of Association:
      Main provisions of the Articles of Association including rights of the members
      regarding voting, dividend, lien on shares and the process for modification of such

                                           333
            rights, forfeiture of shares and restrictions, if any, on transfer and transmission of
            securities and their consolidation or splitting.


(16) Any other material disclosures, as deemed necessary.


(17) In case of a 689[fast track public issue], the disclosures specified in this Part, which
      have been indicated in 690[Part D], need not be made.


(18) Other Information:
            List of material contracts and inspection of documents for inspection:
            (1)     Material contracts.
            (2)     Material Documents
            (3)     Time and place at which the contracts, together with documents, will be
                    available for inspection from the date of the offer document until the date of
                    closing of the subscription list.
                  691
                        [Provided that the material contracts and material documents shall also be made
                    available for inspection through online means.]
            (4)     IPO grading reports for each of the grades obtained
            (5)     The draft offer document/ draft letter of offer and offer document shall be
                    approved by the Board of Directors of the issuer and shall be signed by all
                    directors including the Managing Director within the meaning of the Companies
                    Act, 2013 or Manager, within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013 and the
                    Chief Financial Officer or any other person heading the finance function and
                    discharging that function. The signatories shall further certify that all disclosures
                    are true and correct.
                    DECLARATION BY THE ISSUER: We hereby declare that all relevant
                    provisions of the the Companies Act, 2013 and the guidelines/regulations issued
                    by the Government of India or the guidelines/regulations issued by the Securities
                    and Exchange Board of India, established under section 3 of the Securities and
                    Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, as the case may be, have been complied


689
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “fast track issue”.
690
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “Part B”.
691
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.

                                                      334
                   with and no statement made in the Red Herring Prospectus is contrary to the
                   provisions of the the Companies Act, 2013, the Securities and Exchange Board
                   of India Act, 1992 or rules made or guidelines or regulations issued there under,
                   as the case may be. We further certify that all statements are true and correct.


                                692 [Part B-Disclosures in a letter of offer



      (1) An issuer proposing a rights issue shall make the following disclosures, as far as
          possible, in the draft letter of offer /letter of offer in the order in which the disclosures
          are specified in this clause:

         (I)      Cover Pages: The cover page paper shall be of adequate thickness (minimum
                  hundred GSM quality).

                    (a) Front Cover Pages:

                     i.   Front inside cover page shall be kept blank.
                    ii.   Front outside cover page shall contain only the following details:
                          (a)       Type of letter of offer (“Draft Letter of Offer” or “Letter of
                                 Offer”).

                          (b)       Date of the draft letter of offer / letter of offer.

                          (c)       Name of the issuer, its logo, date and place of its incorporation,
                                 corporate identity number, telephone number, address of its
                                 registered and corporate offices, website address and e-mail address
                                 (mention if where there has been any change in the address of the
                                 registered office or the name of the issuer).

                          (d)       Nature, number and price of specified securities offered and issue
                                 size, as may be applicable.

                          (e)       Name of the promoter(s).

                          (f)       Name of the issuer or any of its promoters or directors being a
                                 wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower and a cross-reference to the
                                 relevant section.


692
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 08.04.2025.

                                                     335
(g)     The following clause on “General Risk” shall be incorporated in a
      box format:

        "Investment in equity and equity related securities involve a
        degree of risk and investors should not invest any funds in this
        offer unless they can afford to take the risk with such investment.
        Investors are advised to read the risk factors carefully before
        taking an investment decision in this offering. For taking an
        investment decision, investors shall rely on their own examination
        of the issuer and the offer, including the risks involved. The
        securities have not been recommended or approved by the
        Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) nor does SEBI
        guarantee the accuracy or adequacy of this document. Specific
        attention of investors is invited to the statement of ‘Risk factors’
        given on page number ...…. The following clause on ‘Issuer’s
        Absolute Responsibility’ shall be incorporated in a box format:


        "The issuer, having made all reasonable inquiries, accepts
        responsibility for and confirms that this letter of offer contains all
        information with regard to the issuer and the issue, which is
        material in the context of the issue, and that the information
        contained in the letter of offer is true and correct in all material
        aspects and is not misleading in any material respect, that the
        opinions and intentions expressed herein are honestly held and that
        there are no other facts, the omission of which make this document
        as a whole or any of such information or the expression of any
        such opinions or intentions misleading in any material respect."
(h)     Name, logo and address of the registrar to the issue, along with its
      telephone number, website address and e-mail address.

(i)     Issue schedule:

          a. Last date for credit of rights entitlements
          b. Date of opening of the issue
          c. Last date for on-market renunciation of rights entitlements
          d. Date of closing of the issue


                          336
                           e. Date of finalization of basis of allotment
                           f. Date of allotment
                           g. Date of credit of rights equity shares
                           h. Date of listing


               (j)        Name(s) of the stock exchanges where the specified securities are
                       listed and the details of their in-principle approval for listing
                       obtained from these stock exchange(s) along with the name of
                       Designated Stock Exchange.

(II)    Back cover pages:
           1. The back inside cover page and back outside cover page shall be kept
               blank.
           2. The letter of offer should be in clear readable font, preferably of minimum
               font size ten.
(III)   Table of contents: The table of contents shall appear immediately after the front
        inside cover page.

(IV)    Definitions and abbreviations:

             a) Conventional or general terms

             b) Issue related terms

             c) Issuer and industry related terms

             d) Abbreviations

(V)     Letter of offer

             A. Description of the business of the Issuer in a summary form.
             B. Intention and extent of participation by promoter/promoter group with
                 respect to:
                     a) their rights entitlement and intention to subscribe to their rights
                        entitlement
                     b) their intention to subscribe over and above their rights entitlement
                     c) their intention to renounce their rights entitlement, to specific
                        investor(s). The names of the specific investor(s) shall be
                        disclosed in a public advertisement at least two days prior to the


                                          337
         issue opening date.

Provided that such participation shall not result in a breach of the
minimum public shareholding requirement stipulated in the Securities and
Exchange     Board    of   India   (Listing   Obligations   and   Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.

C. Intention of issuer to allot the under-subscribed portion of the rights
   issue to any specific investor(s). Name(s) of the specific investor(s)
   shall be disclosed in a public advertisement two days prior to the issue
   opening date.
D. Details of the issuer or any of its promoters or directors being a willful
   defaulter or a fraudulent borrower.

   a) Name of the person declared as a wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
       borrower

   b) Name of the bank declaring the person as a wilful defaulter or a
       fraudulent borrower

   c) Year in which the person was declared as a wilful defaulter or a
       fraudulent borrower

   d) Outstanding amount when the person was declared as a wilful
       defaulter or a fraudulent borrower

   e) Steps taken, if any, by the person for removal of its name from the
       list of wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower

   f) Other disclosures, as deemed fit by the issuer, in order to enable
       investors to take an informed decision.

E. Outstanding litigations: Summary of outstanding litigations in a tabular
   format along with the amount involved, wherever quantifiable for the
   pending matters which, if they result in an adverse outcome, would
   materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial position
   of the issuer:

   1. Matters which are pending:



                           338
                         i.     Involving criminal liability on the part of the issuer.

                        ii.     Material violations of the statutory regulations by the issuer.

                    iii.        Economic offences where proceedings have been initiated
                                against the issuer.

                2. For the purpose of determining materiality, the threshold shall be
                    lower of threshold criteria mentioned below–

                              (1) As per the policy of materiality defined by the board of
                              directors of the issuer and disclosed in the offer document;
                              (2) Litigation where the value or expected impact in terms of
                              value, exceeds the lower of the following:

                                (a) two percent of turnover, as per the latest annual restated
                                   consolidated financial statements of the issuer;
                                (b) two percent of net worth, as per the latest annual restated
                                   consolidated financial statements of the issuer, except in
                                   case the arithmetic value of the net worth is negative; or
                                (c) five percent of the average of absolute value of profit or
                                   loss after tax, as per the last three annual restated
                                   consolidated financial statements of the issuer.
                3. These disclosures shall be made in respect of the issuer and the
                    subsidiary companies of the issuer as per the Securities and
                    Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
                    Requirements) Regulations, 2015.


(VI)    Risk factors:

             A. Risk factors shall be in relation to the following:
                   i. issue and objects of the issue;
                  ii. risks material to the issuer and its business;

             in each case above, where applicable, along with instances of occurrence
             of such risk in the past and financial or other impact thereof, if any, on the
             issuer and its business.

(VII)   Whether the issuer is in compliance with the equity listing agreement or the


                                            339
       Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
       Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as applicable) for a period of at least three
       years immediately preceding the reference date. If not, details for such non-
       compliance.

(VIII) Whether the issuer has redressed at least ninety-five percent of the complaints
       received from the investors until the end of the quarter immediately preceding the
       month of the reference date. If not, details of the same.

(IX)    Details of the following actions along with the potential adverse impact on the
       company, where against the issuer or its promoters or whole time directors-

          i. Show-cause notice(s) has been issued by the Board or the Adjudicating
                Officer in a proceeding for imposition of penalty; or
         ii. Prosecution proceedings have been initiated by the Board;

(X)     Details including reasons, period, etc. where the equity shares of the company
       have been suspended from trading as a disciplinary measure during last three years
       immediately preceding the reference date.

(XI)    Introduction:
       A. General Information:

           1.       Names, addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of the
                 Company Secretary and compliance officer of the issuer.

           2.       Name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the Statutory
                 Auditor(s) of the issuer.

           3.       Names, addresses, telephone numbers, contact person, website addresses
                 and e-mail addresses of the bankers to the issue, self-certified syndicate
                 bankers and legal advisors to the issue; URL of SEBI website listing out the
                 details of self- certified syndicate banks, registrar to issue and share transfer
                 agents, depository participants, etc.

           4.       Following details of credit rating in case of an issue of convertible debt
                 instrument:

                    a.   The names of all the credit rating agencies from which credit
                         rating including unaccepted rating has been obtained for the


                                             340
                  issue of convertible debt instruments.

             b. Details of all credit ratings, including unaccepted ratings,
                  obtained for the issue of convertible debt instruments.

             c.    All credit ratings obtained during the preceding three years for
                  any of the issuer’s listed convertible debt instruments at the time
                  of accessing the market through a convertible debt instrument.

    5.       Name, address, telephone number, website address and e-mail address of
         the debenture trustee in case of an issue of convertible debt instruments.

    6.       Name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the monitoring
         agency.

    7.       Details of underwriting:
             a.    Names, address, telephone numbers, and e-mail address of the
                  underwriters and the amount underwritten by each of them.

             b. Declaration by the board of directors of the issuer that the
                  underwriters have sufficient resources to discharge their
                  respective obligations.

             c.    In case of partial underwriting of the issue, the extent of such
                  underwriting.

             d. Details of the final underwriting arrangement, indicating actual
                  number of specified securities underwritten, in the letter of offer
                  filed with the designated stock exchange.

    8.       The fact of filing the letter of offer with the Board and the stock
         exchange(s) and the office of the Board where the letter of offer has been
         filed.

B. Capital Structure: The capital structure in the following manner in a tabular
   form:
    1.       Authorised, issued and subscribed capital, after suitable incorporation
         of the outstanding convertible securities (number of securities, description
         and aggregate nominal value).
    2.       Paid-up capital.


                                   341
                (a)       After the issue.

                (b)       Assuming conversion of convertible securities, warrants, if any,
                       and employee stock options that vest until the allotment date.

           3.         The following details of outstanding instruments:

                (A)       Details of options, if any.

                (B)       Details of convertible securities, if any.

           4.         Details of specified securities held by the promoter and promoter group
                including the details of lock-in, pledge of and encumbrance on such
                specified securities. This information can be either incorporated by
                reference with specific website details of stock exchange(s) or by
                providing required details in the letter of offer.
           5.         Details of specified securities acquired by the promoter and promoter
                group in the last one year immediately preceding the date of filing of the
                letter of offer with the designated stock exchange
           6.         Ex-rights price as referred to under clause (b) of sub-regulation 4 of
                regulation 10 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial
                Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011.
           7.         Shareholding pattern as in the format prescribed in the Securities and
                Exchange       Board    of    India     (Listing   Obligations   and   Disclosure
                Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as submitted to the stock exchanges.
                This information can be either incorporated by reference with specific
                website details of stock exchange(s) or by providing required details in the
                letter of offer.
           8.         Details of the shareholders holding more than one per cent. of the share
                capital of the issuer. This information can be either incorporated by
                reference with specific website details of stock exchange(s) or by
                providing required details in the letter of offer.
           9.         Any issuance of equity shares made in the last one year for
                consideration other than cash.

(XII)   Particulars of the Issue
        (A) Objects of the Issue:



                                             342
(1)         Objects of the issue for which funds are being raised

(2)         If the objects of the issue is repayment of loan or any other debt, then
      the following disclosures shall be made:

      (a)       details of loan proposed to be repaid such as name of the lender,
             tenure, brief terms and conditions and amount outstanding;

(3)         If one of the objects is investment in a joint venture or subsidiary or an
      acquisition, the following additional disclosures shall be made:

       (a)      details of the form of investment, i.e. equity, debt or any other
              instrument;

       (b)      if the form of investment has not been decided, a statement to that
              effect;

       (c)      if the investment is in debt instruments, complete details regarding
              the rate of interest, nature of security, terms of repayment,
              subordination, etc.;

       (d)      nature of benefit expected to accrue to the issuer as a result of the
              investment;

(4)         If one of the objects of the issue is to grant a loan to an entity other than
      a subsidiary, details of the loan agreements including the rate of interest,
      whether secured or unsecured, duration, nature of security, terms of
      repayment, subordination, etc. and the nature of benefit expected to accrue
      to the issuer as a result of the investment. If such a loan is to be granted to
      any of the group companies, details of the same.

(5)         If one of the objects of the issue is utilisation of the issue proceeds for
      long term working capital, the following additional disclosures on a
      standalone basis, based on audited standalone financial statements:

       (a)      Basis of estimation of working capital requirement, along with
              relevant assumptions.

       (b)      Reasons for raising additional working capital, substantiating the
              same with relevant facts and figures.


                                  343
       (c)    Details of the projected working capital requirement including
             detailed assessment of working capital after implementation of the
             project or achievement of objects of the issue, as the case may be,
             capacity utilisation assumptions, break-up of expected current assets
             into raw materials, finished goods, work in progress, sundry debtors
             etc., along with the assumption about the holding norms for each
             type of current asset, total current liabilities, net current assets and
             envisaged sources of finance for net current assets, i.e. bank finance,
             institutional finance, own funds, etc.

       (d)    Total envisaged working capital requirement in a tabular form, the
             margin money thereof and the portion to be financed by any bank(s)
             or otherwise.

       (e)    Details of the existing working capital available with the issuer,
             along with a break-up of total current assets into raw materials,
             finished goods, work in progress, sundry debtors, etc., total current
             liabilities, net current assets and sources of finance for net current
             assets, i.e. bank finance, institutional finance, own funds, etc.

       (f)    If no working capital is shown as a part of the project for which the
             issue is being made, the reasons for the same.

             Provided that such standalone financial statements shall be restated
             if there are any restatements/adjustments in the restated consolidated
             financial statements which may have impact on the audited
             standalone financial statements.

(6)      If an object of the issue is to fund a project, the following details shall
      be given:

       (a)    break-up of the cost of the project for which the money is being
             raised;

       (b)    means of financing for the project.

       (c)    location of the project

       (d)    plant and machinery, technology, process, etc.


                               344
          (e)       collaboration, performance guarantee if any, or assistance in
                  marketing by the collaborators.

          (f)       facilities for raw materials and utilities like water, electricity, etc.

          (g)       if no working capital is shown as a part of the project for which the
                  issue is being made, the reasons for the same.

   (7)         If one of the objects of the issue is to purchase any plant, machinery,
         technology, process, etc., the following details shall be given:

         (a)        Details shall be given in a tabular form, which shall include the
                details of the equipment required to be bought by the issuer, cost of
                the equipment, name of the suppliers, date of placement of order and
                the date or expected date of supply, etc.

         (b)        In case the order for the equipment is yet to be placed, the date of
                quotations relied upon for the cost estimates given shall also be
                mentioned.

         (c)        The percentage and value terms of the equipment for which orders
                are yet to be placed shall be stated.

         (d)        The details of the second hand equipment bought or proposed to be
                bought, if any, including the age of the machines, balance estimated
                life, etc. shall also be given.

   (8)         If warrants or partly paid shares are proposed to be issued in a rights
               issue, disclosure of the objects towards which the funds from
               conversions of warrants/call money for partly paid shares are proposed
               to be used.

(B) Requirement of Funds:

   (1)         Where the issuer proposes to undertake more than one activity or
         project, such as diversification, modernisation, expansion, etc., the total
         project cost activity-wise or project wise, as the case may be.

   (2)         Where the issuer is implementing the project in a phased manner, the
         cost of each phase including the phase, if any, which has already been


                                     345
      implemented.

(3)         Details of all material existing or anticipated transactions in relation to
      the utlisation of the issue proceeds or project cost with promoters,
      directors, key managerial personnel,            senior management, associate
      companies (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013). The relevant
      documents shall be included in the list of material documents for
      inspection.

(4)         If any part of the proceeds of the issue is to be applied directly or
      indirectly:

      (a)       in the purchase of any business; or

      (b)       in the purchase of an interest in any business and by reason of that
             purchase, or anything to be done in consequence thereof, or in
             connection therewith; the issuer will become entitled to an interest in
             respect to either the capital or profits and losses or both, in such
             business exceeding fifty per cent. thereof;

             a report made by accountants (who shall be named in the letter of
             offer) upon:
                i.   the profits or losses of the business of each of three completed
                     financial years immediately preceding the issue of the letter of
                     offer; and
               ii.   the assets and liabilities of the business at the last date to
                     which the accounts of the business were made, being a date
                     not more than six months before the date of the issue of the
                     letter of offer.
              iii.   the issuer company may also voluntarily include proforma
                     financial statements to disclose the impact of such purchase,
                     for such financial periods as determined by the issuer
                     company, provided such proforma financial statements are
                     prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on
                     assurance engagement or guidelines issued by the Institute of
                     Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) from time to time and
                     certified by the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who


                                  346
                       hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the
                       ICAI.

   (5)    If:

         A.       any part of the proceeds of the issue is to be applied directly or
                indirectly in any manner resulting in the acquisition by the issuer of
                shares in any other body corporate; and
         B.       by reason of that acquisition or anything to be done in
                consequence thereof or in connection therewith, that body corporate
                will become a subsidiary of the issuer;

                 a report made by accountants (who shall be named in the letter of
                offer) upon:
                  i.   the profits or losses of the other body corporate for each of the
                       three completed financial years immediately preceding the
                       issue of the Letter of Offer; and
                ii.    the assets and liabilities of the other body corporate at the last
                       date to which its accounts were made, being a date not more
                       than six months before the date of the issue of the letter of
                       offer.
                iii.   the issuer company may also voluntarily include proforma
                       financial statements to disclose the impact of such acquisition,
                       for such financial periods as determined by the issuer
                       company, provided such proforma financial statements are
                       prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on
                       assurance engagement or guidelines issued by the Institute of
                       Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) from time to time and
                       certified by the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who
                       hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the
                       ICAI.

(C) Strategic partners to the project or objects of the issue.

(D) Financial partners to the project or objects of the issue.

(E) Funding plan (Means of Finance):



                                   347
       1.       An undertaking by the issuer confirming that firm arrangements of
            finance through verifiable means towards seventy-five per cent. of the
            stated means of finance, excluding the amount to be raised through the
            proposed issue and existing identifiable internal accruals, have been
            made.
       2.       Balance portion of the means of finance for which no firm
            arrangement has been made without specification.
       3.       Details of funds tied up and the avenues for deployment of excess
            proceeds, if any.

(F) Appraisal (if applicable):

       1.       Scope and purpose of the appraisal, if any, along with the date of
            appraisal.
       2.       Cost of the project and means of finance as per the appraisal
            report.
       3.       Explanation of revision, if any, in the project cost and the means of
            finance after the date of issue of the appraisal report.
       4.       Weaknesses, qualifications and threats given in the appraisal
            report, by way of risk factors.

(G) Schedule of implementation: The schedule of implementation of the
    project and the progress made so far, giving details of land acquisition, civil
    works, installation of plant and machinery, trial production, date of
    commercial production and reasons for delay, if any.

(H) Deployment of funds:

       1.       Details of the sources of funds and the deployment of these funds
            on the project (where the issuer is raising capital for a project), up to a
            date not earlier than two months from the date of filing the letter of
            offer with the designated stock exchange, as certified by a chartered
            accountant, along with the name of the chartered accountant and the
            date of the certificate.
       2.       Where share application money brought in advance by the
            promoters is deployed in the project and the same is being adjusted
            towards their rights entitlement in the rights issue, the extent of


                                  348
              deployment and utilisation of the funds brought in by the promoters.

(I)   Sources of financing of funds already deployed: Means and source of
      financing, including details of "bridge loan" or other financial arrangement,
      which may be repaid from the proceeds of the issue.

(J) Details of balance fund deployment: Year wise break-up of the
      expenditure proposed to be incurred on the said project.

(K) Interim use of funds: A statement that net issue proceeds pending
      utilization (for the stated objects) shall be deposited only in the scheduled
      commercial banks.

(L) Expenses of the issue: Expenses of the issue (in terms of amount, as a
      percentage of total issue expenses and as a percentage of total issue size)
      under the following heads:

           (1) Brokerage, selling commission and upload fees

           (2) Registrars to the issue

           (3) Legal Advisors (if any)

           (4) Advertising and marketing expenses

           (5) Regulators including stock exchanges

           (6) Printing and distribution of issue stationary

           (7) Others, if any (to be specified).

(M) Any special tax benefits for the issuer and its shareholders and its material
      subsidiaries identified in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board
      of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
      2015.

(N) Key Industry Regulations for the proposed objects of the issue (if different
      from existing business of the issuer).

(O) Interest of promoters, promoter group and directors, as applicable to the
      project or objects of the issue.



                                 349
(XIII) Management        (Board     of   Directors     and     Senior    Management)        and
        Organisational Structure:
          (A) Name, date of birth, age, Director Identification Number, address,
              occupation and date of expiration of the current term of office of manager,
              managing director and other directors (including nominee directors and
              whole-time directors),

(XIV) Financial Information of the issuer:
        One standard financial unit shall be used in the Letter of Offer.


        The following extract of the audited consolidated financial statements prepared in
        accordance with applicable accounting standards for the last financial year (with
        the comparative prior full year period) and           latest limited review financial
        statements, if any, disclosed to the stock exchange with the comparative prior year
        period shall be included in the draft letter of offer and letter of offer ( for the
        limited reviewed period, this information should not be earlier than six months
        prior to the date of the opening of the issue). The latest quarterly results disclosed
        to the public can be included in the draft letter of offer and letter of offer.
             i. Total income from operations
             ii. Net profit/loss before tax and extraordinary items
            iii. Net profit/loss after tax and extraordinary items
            iv. Equity share capital
             v. Reserves and surplus
            vi. Net worth
           vii. Basic Earnings per share
           viii. Diluted Earnings per share
            ix. Return on net worth
             x. Net Asset Value per Share

(XV) Detailed rationale for the issue price: How the issuer has arrived at the price of the
        rights shares.
(XVI) Government Approvals or Licensing Arrangements: All material pending
        government and regulatory approvals pertaining to the objects of the issue.
(XVII) Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures:
          (a) Authority for the issue and details of the resolution passed for the issue.



                                          350
        (b) A statement by the issuer that the issuer, promoters, promoter group,
              directors have not been or are not prohibited from accessing or operating in
              the capital markets or restrained from buying, selling or dealing in securities
              under any order or direction passed by the Board.

        (c) A statement by the issuer if any of the directors of the issuer are associated
              with the securities market in any manner, and if yes, details of any
              outstanding action initiated by the Board against the said entities with the
              relevant details.

        (d) Disclaimer clauses:

        (e) Disclaimer in respect of jurisdiction: A brief paragraph mentioning the
              jurisdiction under which the provisions of law and the rules and regulations
              are applicable to the letter of offer.

        (f)   Disclaimer clause of the stock exchanges.

        (g) Disclaimer clause of the Reserve Bank of India, the Insurance Regulatory
              and Development Authority of India and of any other regulatory authority
              (if applicable).

        (h) Arrangements or any mechanism evolved by the issuer for redressal of
              investor grievances and the time normally taken by it for disposal of various
              types of investor grievances.

(XVIII) Offering Information:

       (1)    Terms of payments and procedure and time schedule for allotment and
              demat credit of securities.

       (2)    How to apply, availability of application forms and letter of offer and mode
              of payment, including the following:

              (a) Applications by mutual funds:

                i.    A statement under the heads "Procedure for applications by mutual
                      funds" and "Multiple Applications" to indicate that a separate
                      application can be made in respect of each scheme of an Indian
                      mutual fund registered with the Board and that such applications


                                         351
              shall not be treated as multiple applications.
        ii.   A statement that the application made by an asset management
              company or by custodian of a mutual fund shall clearly indicate the
              name of the concerned scheme for which the application is being
              made.

      (b) Applications by non-resident Indians:

         i.   the name and address of at least one place in India from where
              individual non-resident Indian applicants can obtain the application
              forms.
        ii.   Application by ASBA investors: Details of Application Supported
              by Blocked Amount process including specific instructions for
              submitting Application Supported by Blocked Amount.
       iii.   A statement that the shareholders who have not received the
              application form can apply, along with the requisite application
              money, by making an application that is available on the website of
              registrar, stock exchanges, lead managers or on a plain paper with
              same details as per application form available online.
       iv.    The format to enable shareholders to make an application on a plain
              paper specifying therein necessary particulars such as name,
              address, ratio of rights issue, issue price, number of equity shares
              held, depository participant ID, client ID, number of equity shares
              applied for, amount to be blocked with SCSB for using ASBA
              facility. Application form available online on the website of
              registrar, stock exchanges, lead managers may be used for providing
              requisite details;
        v.    A statement that shareholders making an application on a plain
              paper cannot renounce their rights and shall not utilise the
              application form for any purpose including renunciation even if it is
              received subsequently.

(3)   Dealing with Fractional Entitlement: Manner of dealing with fractional
      entitlement viz. payment of the equivalent of the value, if any, of the
      fractional rights in cash etc.

(4)   Provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, as relating to punishment for

                                   352
      fictitious applications, including the disclosures that any person who:

      (a) makes or abets making of an application in a fictitious name to a
         company for acquiring, or subscribing for, its securities; or
      (b) makes or abets making of multiple applications to a company in
         different names or in different combinations of his/her name or surname
         for acquiring or subscribing for its securities; or
      (c) otherwise induces directly or indirectly a company to allot, or register
         any transfer of, securities to such person, or to any other person in a
         fictitious name.

         Provided that any penalty imposed pursuant to Companies Act, 2013
         shall also be disclosed.
(5)   A statement that credit of specified securities to the demat account/ issuing
      instructions for un-blocking of ASBA shall be done within a period of
      fifteen days and interest shall be payable in case of delay in issuing
      instructions for un-blocking of ASBA at the prescribed rate. In cases where
      refunds are applicable, such refunds shall be made within a period of fifteen
      days and interest shall be payable in case of delay. Liability of issuer and its
      directors (who are officers in default) to issue instructions for unblocking/
      make refunds along with specified rate of interest shall also be mentioned,
      in case refunds are not made within the specified timeline.

(6)   Mode of making refunds:

      a) The mode in which the issuer shall make refunds to applicants in case of
         an oversubscription or failure to list or otherwise.
      b) If the issuer proposes to use more than one mode of making refunds to
         applicants, the respective cases where each such mode will be adopted
         shall be disclosed.
      c) The permissible modes of making refunds are as follows:
           i. Unblocking amounts blocked using ASBA facility;
          ii.   In case of applicants residing in any of the centres specified by the
                Board: by crediting of refunds to the bank accounts of applicants
                through electronic transfer of funds by using Direct Credit, RTGS
                (Real Time Gross Settlement) or NEFT (National Electronic Funds
                Transfer) or NACH (National Automated Clearing House), as

                                 353
                          applicable, as is for the time being permitted by the Reserve Bank
                          of India;
                 iii.   In case of other applicants: by despatch of refund orders by registered
                          post, where the value is ₹1500 or more, or under certificate of
                          posting in other cases, (subject however to postal rules); and
                 iv.    In case of any category of applicants specified by the Board: crediting
                          of refunds to the applicants in any electronic manner permissible by
                          the Board.

        (7)   Basis of Allotment: Allotment shall be made in the following manner-

                 i. Full allotment to those eligible shareholders who have applied for
                    their Rights Entitlement either in full or in part and also to the
                    renouncee(s), who has or have applied for the specified securities in
                    their favour, in full or in part, as adjusted for fractional entitlement.
                ii. Allotment to eligible shareholders who having applied for the
                    specified securities in full to extent of their Rights Entitlement and
                    have also applied for additional specified securities, shall be made as
                    far as possible on an equitable basis having due regard to the number
                    of specified securities held by them on record date, provided there is
                    an under-subscribed portion after making allotment in (i) above.
                iii. Allotment to the renouncee(s), who having applied for the specified
                    securities renounced in their favour and also applied for additional
                    specified securities, provided there is an under-subscribed portion
                    after making full allotment specified in (i) and (ii) above. The
                    allotment of such additional specified securities may be made on a
                    proportionate basis.
                iv. Allotment to specific investor(s) or to any other person, subject to
                    applicable laws, that the board of issuer may deem fit, provided there
                    is an under-subscribed portion after making allotment under (i), (ii)
                    and (iii) above.

(XIX)    Undertakings by the issuer in connection with the issue: The issuer shall
        undertake that:

                  a) complaints received in respect of the issue shall be attended to by
                        the issuer expeditiously and satisfactorily.

                                           354
b) steps for completion of the necessary formalities for listing and
   commencement of trading at all stock exchanges where the specified
   securities are to be listed are taken within the time limit specified by
   the Board.
c) funds required for making refunds to unsuccessful applicants as per
   the mode(s) disclosed shall be made available to the Registrar to the
   issue by the issuer.
d) where refunds are made through electronic transfer of funds, a
   suitable communication shall be sent to the applicant within 15 days
   of closure of the issue giving details of the bank where refunds shall
   be credited along with amount and expected date of electronic credit
   of refund.
e) where release of block on the application amount for unsuccessful
   bidders or part of the application amount in case of proportionate
   allotment, a suitable communication shall be sent to the applicants.
f) adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all ASBA
   applications
g) in case of convertible debt instruments, the issuer shall additionally
   undertake that:
      i.   it shall forward the details of utilisation of the funds raised
           through the convertible debt instruments, duly certified by
           the statutory auditors of the issuer, to the debenture trustee at
           the end of each half-year.
     ii.   it shall disclose the name and address of the debenture
           trustee in the annual report.
    iii.   it shall provide a compliance certificate to the convertible
           debt instrument holders on a yearly basis in respect of
           compliance with the terms and conditions of issue of
           debentures as contained in the Letter of Offer, duly certified
           by the debenture trustee.
    iv.    it shall furnish a confirmation certificate that the security
           created by the issuer in favour of the convertible debt
           instrument holders is properly maintained and is adequate to
           meet the payment obligations towards the convertible debt
           instrument holders in the event of a default.

                     355
                        v.     it shall extend necessary cooperation to the credit rating
                               agency(ies) in providing the requisite information in a true
                               and adequate manner till the debt obligations in respect of
                               the instrument are outstanding.

(XX)    Utilisation of Issue Proceeds: The letter of offer, other than for an issue made by
       a scheduled commercial bank or a public financial institution, shall contain a
       statement of the board of directors of the issuer to the effect that:

            A. all monies received out of issue of shares or specified securities to the
                public shall be transferred to a separate bank account.
            B. details of all monies utilised out of the issue referred to in clause (A) shall
                be disclosed under an appropriate separate head in the balance sheet of
                the issuer indicating the purpose for which such monies had been utilised;
                and
            C. details of all unutilised monies out of the issue of specified securities
                referred to in clause (A) shall be disclosed under an appropriate separate
                head in the balance sheet of the issuer indicating the form in which such
                unutilised monies have been invested.

(XXI) Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any:

              a) Investment by NRIs.

              b) Investment by foreign portfolio investors and foreign venture capital
                  investors.

              c) Investment by other non-residents.

(XXII) Statutory and other information:

            A. Allotment of specified securities shall be in the demateralised form.
            B. Material contracts and time and place of inspection which shall include
                copies of the Annual Reports of the issuer for the last three years:
                      Provided that the material contracts shall also be made available for
                inspection through online means.


(XXIII) Any other material disclosures, as deemed necessary.



                                         356
        (XXIV) Declaration:

                  “No statement made in this letter of offer contravenes any of the provisions of
                  the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. All the legal
                  requirements connected with the issue as also the guidelines, instructions, etc.,
                  issued by SEBI, Government and any other competent authority in this behalf,
                  have been duly complied with.”


                  The draft letter of offer and the letter of offer shall be approved by the Board of
                  Directors of the issuer and shall be signed by all directors including the
                  Managing Director within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013 or Manager
                  within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Chief Financial Officer
                  or any other person heading the finance function and discharging that function.
                  The signatories shall further certify that all disclosures made in the letter of offer
                  are true and correct.
        (XXV) An issuer shall make a copy of the offer document of the immediately preceding
                 public issue or rights issue available to the public in the manner specified in these
                 regulations and shall also make such document available as a material document
                 for inspection.]




                                                  693[****]




          Part C - Certain disclosures not mandatory in case of a further public offer
                         [See regulation 123(2)(d), 186(3)(d), 218(2), 220(1)]


(1) An issuer making a further public offer of specified securities may not make the disclosures
      indicated hereunder and specified in Part A of this Schedule, subject to fulfilment of the
      conditions specified in para 2:
        (i)     Para (a) of sub-item (B) of item (8) under capital structure section;
        (ii)    Para (f) of sub-item (B) of item (8) under capital structure section;
        (iii)   Para (h) of sub-item (F) of item (10) under management section;

693
  Part B-1 omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 08.04.2025.



                                                     357
(2) The conditions referred to in para (1) above are as follows:
     (a) The issuer has been filing periodic statements in regard to financial results and
          shareholding pattern with the designated stock exchange and also with the Registrar of
          Companies (in case of a public issue), for the last three years and such statements are
          available on the website of the designated stock exchange or on a common e-filing
          platform;
     (b) The issuer has in place an investor grievance handling mechanism, which includes
          meeting of the Shareholders/Investors’ Grievance Committee at frequent intervals,
          appropriate delegation of power by the board of directors of the issuer with regard to
          share transfer and clearly laid out systems and procedures for timely and satisfactory
          redressal of investor grievances;
     (c) The lead manager(s) has certified that the conditions specified at (a) and (b) above have
          been complied with;
     (d) The issuer has furnished to the Board the following undertaking along with the draft
          offer document, which shall also be incorporated in the offer document:
          “We confirm that other than the disclosures made in this offer document, nothing
          material has changed in respect of disclosures made by us at the time of our previous
          issue made on ……….”
     (e) The issuer has made the offer document of its immediately preceding public or rights
          issue public in the manner specified in sub-regulation (4) of regulation 26 and/or sub-
          regulation (4) of regulation 72, as applicable, and has also kept this document for public
          inspection in the manner specified in para (e) of sub-item (E) of Item (10) of Part A of
          this Schedule.


        Part D - Certain disclosures not mandatory in case of a fast track public issue


An issuer making a fast track public issue of specified securities may not make the disclosures
indicated hereunder and specified in Part A of this Schedule:
(1) Para (a) of sub-item (B) of item (8) under capital structure section;
(2) Para (f) of sub-item (B) of item (8) under capital structure section;
(3) Para (h) of sub-item (F) of item (10) under management section;
(4) Sub-para (ii) of para (a) of sub-item (G) of item (10) under promoter/ principle shareholder
     section;
(5) Sub-para (iv) of para (b) of sub-item (G) of item (10) under promoter/ principle shareholder
     section

                                                358
                           Part E - Disclosures in an abridged prospectus
                                 [See regulation 34(1) 694[***] and 131(1)]


An abridged prospectus shall contain information as is material and appropriate to enable
investors to make an informed decision, and shall be as per the format and order specified by the
Board in Annexure I.
General Instructions:
(I)      A copy of the abridged prospectus shall be submitted to the Board.
(II)     Information which is of a generic nature and not specific to the issuer shall be provided in
         the form of a General Information Document (GID) as specified by the Board and which
         shall be available separately and not be included in the draft offer document and offer
         document.
(III)    The abridged prospectus shall be printed in a booklet form of A4 size paper and, along
         with the application form and revision form, shall not exceed five sheets, printed both
         sides. Additional sheets may be appended for bidding centres.
(IV)     The abridged prospectus shall be printed in a font size which shall not be visually smaller
         than Times New Roman size 11 (or equivalent) with 1.0 line spacing.
(V)      The application form shall be so positioned that on the tearing-off of the application form,
         no part of the abridged prospectus is mutilated.




694
   Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020
w.e.f. 28.09.2020. Prior to omission it read as “, 71(2)(d)”.

                                                     359
360
In case of issues by Small and Medium Enterprises under Chapter IX, details of the market maker
to be included




                                              361
362
363
364
RESTATED AUDITED FINANCIALS

Standalone695
                                          Latest Stub    FY 3               FY 2          FY 1
                                          period        (Last audited
                                                        financial year
                                                        prior to issue
                                                        opening)
Total income from operations
(net)
Net Profit / (Loss) before tax and
extraordinary items
Net Profit / (Loss) after tax and
extraordinary items
Equity Share Capital
Reserves and Surplus
Net worth
Basic earnings per share (Rs.)
Diluted earnings per share (Rs.)
Return on net worth (%)
Net asset value per share (Rs.)




 Consolidated 696
                                               Latest Stub         FY 3            FY 2          FY 1
                                                 period        (Last audited
                                                               financial year
                                                               prior to issue
                                                                  opening)



      Total income from operations (Net)


      Net Profit/(Loss) before tax and
      extraordinary items

      Net Profit / (Loss) after tax and
      extraordinary items


      Equity Share Capital
      Reserves and Surplus
      Net worth
      Basic earnings per share (Rs.)
      Diluted earnings per share (Rs.)


695
    The columns for “FY4” and “FY5 (Last audited financial year prior to issue opening)” omitted and column for
“FY3” substituted for “FY3 (Last audited financial year prior to issue opening)” by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
696
    The columns for “FY4” and “FY5 (Last audited financial year prior to issue opening)” omitted and column for
“FY3” substituted for “FY3 (Last audited financial year prior to issue opening)” by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                             365
Return on net worth (%)
Net asset value per share (Rs.)




                                  366
                                                 697[****]




            SCHEDULE VII - DISCLOSURES IN A PLACEMENT DOCUMENT
                                         [See regulations175(2)]




697
  Part-F omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 08.03.2025.



                                                    367
(1)   Disclaimer
      “The preliminary placement document and placement document relates to an issue made to
      qualified institutional buyers under Chapter VI of the Securities and Exchange Board of
      India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and that no offer is
      being made to the public or any other class of investors."
(2)   Glossary of terms/abbreviations
(3)   Lead manager(s) and other advisors
(4)   Summary of the issue and the eligible security
(5)   Risk factors
(6)   Market prices:
      (a)   high, low and average market prices of the equity shares of the issuer during the
            preceding three years;
      (b)   monthly high and low prices for the six–month period preceding the date of filing of
            the preliminary placement document/placement document;
      (c)   number of equity shares traded on the days when high and low prices were recorded
            in the relevant stock exchange during period of (a) and (b) above, and total volume
            traded on those dates; (stock market data referred to above shall be shown separately
            for periods marked by a change in capital structure, with such period commencing
            from the date the concerned stock exchange recognizes the change in the capital
            structure (e.g., when the equity shares have become ex-rights or ex-bonus)
      (d)   market price immediately after the date on which the resolution of the board of
            directors approving the issue was approved
      (e)   volume of securities traded in each month during the six-month period preceding the
            date on which the preliminary placement document / placement document is filed
            with Registrar of Companies; (along with high, low and average prices of shares of
            the issuer, details relating to volume of business transacted should also be stated for
            respective periods.)
(7)   Use of proceeds:
      (a)   purpose of the placement;
      (b)   break-up of the cost of the project for which the money is being raised;
      (c)   means of financing for the project;
      (d)   proposed deployment status of the proceeds at each stage of the project.
(8)   Capitalization statement
(9)   Dividends in the preceding three years prior to the date of the placement document.
(10) Selected financial and other information


                                                  368
(11) The audited consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements, as applicable prepared in
      accordance with applicable accounting standards for the last three financial years. 698[The
      issuer company may voluntarily provide proforma financial statements for acquisitions or
      divestments, for such financial periods as determined by the issuer company, provided such
      proforma financial statements are prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard
      on assurance engagement or guideline issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
      India (ICAI) from time to time and certified by the statutory auditor or chartered
      accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI. The
      issuer may also voluntarily include financial statements of the business or subsidiary
      acquired or divested, provided that such financial statements are certified by the auditor (of
      the business or subsidiary acquired or divested) or chartered accountants, who hold a valid
      certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI.] In addition, latest reviewed
      financials disclosed to the stock exchange.
      a)   Report of statutory auditor’s on the financial statements included in the preliminary
           placement document/placement document.
      b)   Balance sheets
      c)   Statements of income
      d)   Schedules to accounts
      e)   Statements of changes in stockholders’ equity
      f)    Statements of cash flows
      g)   Statement of accounting policies
      h)   Notes to financial statements
      i)    Statement relating to subsidiary companies (in case of unconsolidated financial
            statements)
(12) Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations
(13) Industry description
(14) Business description
(15) Organizational structure
(16) Board of directors and senior management
(17) Latest shareholding pattern as submitted to the stock exchange(s)
(18) Taxation aspects relating to the eligible securities




698
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                  369
(19) Legal proceedings to be disclosed in accordance with the materiality policy framed under
      the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
      Requirements) Regulations, 2015
(20) Auditors
(21) General information
(22) Such other information as is material and appropriate to enable investors to make an
      informed investment decision.
(23) Disclosures pertaining to 699[wilful defaulters or fraudulent borrowers]: If the issuer or any
      of its promoter or director has been declared as a 700[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
      borrower] 701[***], it shall make the following disclosures with respect to each such person
      separately:
       (a) Name of the person declared as a 702[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower];
       (b) Name of the bank declaring the person as a 703[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
                      borrower];
       (c) Year in which the person was declared as a 704[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent
                      borrower];
       (d) Outstanding amount when the person was declared as a 705[wilful defaulter or a
                      fraudulent borrower];
       (e) Steps taken, if any, by the person for removal of its name from the list of 706[wilful
                      defaulters or fraudulent borrowers];
       (f) Other disclosures, as deemed fit by the issuer, in order to enable investors to take an
          informed decision;
       (g) Any other disclosure as specified by the Board.




699
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulters”.
700
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
701
    The words “in the last ten years” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
702
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
703
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
704
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
705
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”.
706
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulters”.

                                                      370
       SCHEDULE VIII - DISCLOSURES IN OFFER DOCUMENT AND ABRIDGED
      PROSPECTUS AND LETTER OF OFFER FOR ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY
                                                RECEIPTS
                      [See regulations 185(2)(b), 193(1), 200(1), 218(2) and 222(1)]


             Part A - Disclosures in offer document for issue of Indian depository receipts


                                   [See regulation 185(2)(b) and 200(1)]


A prospectus for issue of Indian Depository Receipts (IDR) shall contain details as specified
herein.


(1)    General instructions with respect to contents of the offer document:
       (a)      The lead manager(s) has the option to file the draft prospectus as a public filing or as a
                confidential filing, accompanied with fees as prescribed in Rule 5(1)(ii) of the
                Companies (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004.
       (b)      Where the lead manager(s) opts for confidential filing of the draft prospectus, it shall
                subsequently file an updated draft prospectus with the Board (without payment of any
                additional fees), after incorporating therein changes, if any, specified by the Board.
                The updated draft prospectus shall be made public for a period of twenty one days
                from the date of its filing with the Board.
       (c)      The contents of the prospectus including the financial statements of the issuing
                company, its subsidiaries and associates shall be in simple English.
       (d)      The term “associate” for the purpose of this Schedule would mean “associate” as
                defined in Indian Accounting Standards, or IFRS or US GAAP in which the financial
                statements of the issuing company are disclosed.
       (e)      The prospectus shall contain all material information which shall be true and adequate
                so as to enable the investors to make an informed decision.
       (f)      The prospectus shall contain all information and statements specified herein.
       (g)      The issuing company shall, through a lead manager(s), file a prospectus certified by
                two authorized signatories of the issuing company, one of whom shall be a whole-
                time director and other the Chief Accounts Officer or the Chief Financial Officer,
                stating the particulars of the resolution of the Board or the shareholders by which it
                was approved, with the Board and Registrar of Companies, New Delhi, before such



                                                     371
            issue. They shall also certify that all the disclosures made in the prospectus are correct
            and adequate.
      (h)   The agreement made with the domestic depository shall be furnished along with the
            prospectus.
      (i)   The lead manager(s) who is responsible for conducting due diligence exercise with
            respect to contents of the draft offer documents/offer document, as per inter-se
            allocation of responsibilities, shall sign the due diligence certificate.
      (j)   A statement shall be made by the lead manager(s) in the prospectus (including a due
            diligence certificate) in the format as specified in these regulations.
      (k)   A statement shall be made by the issuing company, disclaiming responsibility for
            statements made otherwise than in the prospectus, as follows:
            “The issuing company, its directors and the lead manager(s) accept no responsibility
            for statements made otherwise than in the prospectus or in the advertisements or any
            other material issued by at our instance and anyone placing reliance on any other
            source of information including our website ………… shall be doing so at their own
            risk.”


(2)   The issue:
      Summary of the terms of the offer, including:
      (a)   Offer and listing details
      (b)   Plan of distribution
      (c)   Markets
      (d)   Selling shareholders, if any
      (e)   Dilution
      (f)   Expenses of the Issue


(3)   Forward-looking statements:
      A paragraph on the statements that are forward-looking and not matters of historical facts
      shall be incorporated. A statement on the sources of data used in the prospectus and their
      accuracy shall also be incorporated. A declaration shall also be incorporated on whether
      these have been independently verified.


(4)   General information:
      (a)   Definitions/terms used in the offer document;



                                                  372
(b)   Name, address and contact information of the registered office of the issuing
      company;
(c)   Name, address and contact information of the domestic depository, the overseas
      custodian bank with the address of its office in India, the lead manager(s), the
      underwriter to the issue, advisors to the issue and any other intermediary which may
      be appointed in connection with the issue of IDR;
(d)   Names, addresses and contact information of experts and counsel;
(e)   Name, address and contact information of the compliance officer in relation to the
      issue of IDR;
(f)   Name, address and contact information of stock exchanges where applications are
      made or proposed to be made for listing of the IDR;
(g)   Disclosure about provisions relating to punishment for fictitious applications;
(h)   Statement/declaration for refund of excess subscription;
(i)   Statement that an interest of 15 per cent. p.a. shall be paid to the investors if the
      allotment letters/refund orders are not despatched within fifteen days of the closure of
      the public issue;
(j)   Declaration about issue of allotment letters/certificates/IDR within the stipulated
      period;
(k)   Date of opening of issue;
(l)   Date of earliest closing of the issue;
(m)   Date of closing of issue;
(n)   Method and expected timetable of the issue;
(o)   A statement that subscription to the issue shall be kept open for at least three working
      days and not more than ten working days;
(p)   Declaration by the lead manager(s) with regard to adequacy of resources of
      underwriters to discharge their respective obligations, in case of being required to do
      so;
(q)   A statement by the issuing company that all monies received out of issue of IDR shall
      be transferred to a separate domestic bank account, name and address of the bank and
      the nature and number of the account to which the amount shall be credited;
(r)   Details of availability of prospectus and forms, i.e., period, time, place etc.;
(s)   Amount and mode of payment seeking issue of IDR;
(t)   Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System:
      (i)   The arrangements or any mechanism evolved by the issuing company for
            redressal of investor grievances.

                                           373
            (ii)    The past record (for a minimum period of three years before the date of the
                    prospectus) of investor grievance redressal of the issuing company and its listed
                    subsidiaries/associates including details as to the time normally taken by it for
                    disposal of various types of investor grievances.
            (iii)   The company undertakes to subject itself to the jurisdiction of Indian courts
                    having jurisdiction over the place where the stock exchange is situated
                    regarding grievances of the IDR applicants and IDR holders.


(5)   Risk factors:
      (a)   Risk factors shall be in relation to the following:
            (i)     Risk factors associated with the issuing company’s business
            (ii)    Risk factors associated with the country of the issuing company proposing to
                    issue IDR
            (iii)   Risk factors associated with the IDR/underlying shares
      (b)   Risk factors shall be classified as those which are specific to the project and internal
            to the issuing company and those which are external and beyond the control of the
            issuing company.
      (c)   Risk factors shall be determined on the basis of their materiality. In doing so, the
            following shall be considered:
            (i)     Some risks may not be material individually but may be found material
                    collectively.
            (ii)    Some risks may have a material impact which is qualitative though not
                    quantitative.
            (iii)   Some risks may not be material at present but may have a material impact in
                    the future.
      (d)   Each risk factor shall appear in the following manner:
            (i)     Risk as envisaged by the issuer
            (ii)    Proposals, if any, to address the risks.


      Any ‘notes’ required to be given prominence shall appear immediately after the risk factors.


(6)   Recent developments:
      Important events in the recent past (two financial years preceding the issue) providing
      details of important developments on three key areas: Operations & Management,
      Shareholding Patterns and Business Environment.

                                                   374
(7)   Exchange-wise market price information and other information concerning the shares
      in the domestic market of the issuing company:
      This information should be updated as on the last available date before the date of the
      prospectus.
      (a)   Market price of shares for each quarter of the last three calendar years preceding the
            calendar year preceding the year of the issue of the prospectus (High, Low, Average
            Daily Trading Volume)
      (b)   Market price of shares for each month of the calendar year preceding the year of the
            issue of the prospectus (High, Low, Average Daily Trading Volume)
      (c)   Market price of shares for the month preceding the date of the prospectus (High, Low,
            Average Daily Trading Volume)
      (d)   The opening and closing price on the last day of the month preceding the date of the
            prospectus along with the volume


(8)   Dividends:
      (a)   Dividend policy of the issuing company
      (b)   Rate of dividend and amount of dividend paid for the last five financial years
      (c)   Regulatory framework in the country of incorporation/share listed concerning
            dividends
      (d)   Details of arrangement with the depositories for payment of dividend to the IDR
            holders
      (e)   Changes, if any, in dividends announced and dividends paid and time gap between the
            dividends announced and dividends paid
      (f)   Dividend yield
      (g)   Taxation aspects of dividend distribution


(9)   Exchange rates:
      (a)   Brief history of the pattern of the exchange rates between the country of
            incorporation/where shares are listed and India
      (b)   High, Low and Average exchange rates for the last five years
      (c)   High, Low and Average exchange rates for the last twelve months


(10) Foreign investment and exchange controls of the country of incorporation/ where the
      shares are listed:

                                               375
     Information relating to the relevant foreign investment laws and exchange control
     regulations of the country of incorporation or country where the underlying equity shares
     are listed.


(11) Objects of the issue/use of proceeds:
      (a)            Purpose of the issue
      (b)            Break-up of the cost of the project for which the money is raised through the IDR
      issue
      (c)            Means of financing of the project
      (d)            Proposed deployment of the proceeds at each stage of the project.


(12) Interim use of funds:
     The issuer company shall keep funds in a bank having a credit rating of 'A' or above by an
     international credit rating agency.


(13) Capitalisation statement:


                     Particulars                               Pre-issue as at ........ (Rupees in crores)
       Short-Term Debt
       Long Term Debt
       Shareholders’ Funds
            - Share Capital
            - Reserves
       Total Shareholders’ Funds
       Long Term Debt/Equity


(14) Capital structure:
     (a)      Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid-up capital (number of instruments,
              description, aggregate nominal value)
     (b)      Size of the present issue
     (c)      Paid-up Capital:
              (i)      before the issue;
              (ii)     after the issue (if the IDR issue involves issue of fresh equity shares); and
              (iii)    share premium account (before and after the issue)
     (d)      Detailed notes to the capital structure

                                                     376
     (e)   Details regarding holdings of major shareholders i.e., the person or persons who are in
           over-all control of the company
     (f)   Different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any.


(15) Financial information:


     General Instructions:
     (1) The format of disclosure of financial results may be as per the disclosure requirements
     of the issuing company in the home country where the issuer is listed.


     (2) The issuing company shall mention the type of disclosures that it will follow i.e. whether
     as per Indian Accounting Standards, IFRS or US GAAP and any change in such format
     shall be informed to the IDR holders by way of notices to the stock exchanges.


     (a)   The audited consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements, prepared in
           accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (including all Accounting Standards
           issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India) or with the International
           Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or US GAAP, for a period of three financial
           years immediately preceding the date of the prospectus shall contain the following:
           (i)     Report of Auditors on the Financial Statements
           (ii)    Balance Sheets
           (iii)   Statements of Income
           (iv)    Schedules to Accounts
           (v)     Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity
           (vi)    Statements of Cash Flows
           (vii)   Statement of Accounting Policies
           (viii) Notes to the Financial Statements
           (ix)    Statement Relating to Subsidiary Companies (in case of unconsolidated
                   financial statements)
           (x)     Related Party Transactions
           (xi)    Liquidity and Capital Resources
     (b)   The financial information in the prospectus shall be disclosed in the issuing
           company’s functional currency/reporting currency/national currency and the reporting
           currency shall be restricted to Sterling Pound/Euro/Yen/US Dollar.



                                                377
(c)   In case the financial results are prepared as per IFRS or US GAAP, the financial
      results shall be audited by a professional accountant or certified public accountant or
      equivalent (by whatever name called in the home country in accordance with the
      International Standards on Auditing (ISA)).
(d)   Where the law of the home country requires annual statutory audit of the accounts of
      the issuing company, a report of the statutory auditor on the audited financial
      statements of the issuing company for each of the three financial years immediately
      preceding the date of the prospectus including the profits or losses, assets, liabilities
      and cash-flow statement of the issuing company at the last date to which the accounts
      of the issuing company were made in the specified form:
      Provided the gap between date of opening of issue and date of report shall not exceed
      120 days.
(e)   The report prepared by the statutory auditors of the issuing company should disclose
      financial statements (as per relevant period in the annual report) in Indian Rupees (at
      the closing rate of exchange, as at the date on which the financial information is
      presented), compiled in a tabular form and include the consolidated or unconsolidated
      income statement, consolidated or unconsolidated cash flow statements, consolidated
      or unconsolidated balance sheet and the capitalisation statement required under item
      (12).
(f)   The interim audited financial statements in respect of the period ending on a date
      which is less than 180 days prior to the date of opening of the issue have to be
      included in the report, if the gap between the ending date of the latest audited
      financial statements disclosed as above and the date of the opening of the issue is
      more than 180 days:
      Provided that if the gap between such date of latest audited financial statements and
      the date of opening of issue is 180 days or less, the requirement above shall be
      deemed to be complied with, if disclosures in respect of material changes in the
      financial position of issuing company for such gap are disclosed in the prospectus:
      Provided further that in case of an issuing company which is a foreign bank
      incorporated outside India and which is regulated by a member of the Bank for
      International Settlements or a member of the International Organization of Securities
      Commissions which is a signatory to a Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding,
      the requirement above, in respect of period beginning with last date of period for
      which the latest audited financial statements are made and the date of opening of the



                                          378
      issue shall be satisfied, if the relevant financial statements are based on limited review
      report of such statutory auditor.
(g)   In case the issuing company opts to prepare and disclose the financial results as per
      US GAAP, a reconciliation statement vis-a-vis Indian Accounting Standards and
      summary of significant differences between the Indian Accounting Standards and US
      GAAP has to be annexed with the report. If financial results are prepared in
      accordance with IFRS, issuing company shall annex the summary of significant
      differences between the Indian Accounting Standards and IFRS.
(h)   Where the law of the home country does not require annual statutory audit of the
      accounts of the issuing company, a report, prepared in accordance with Indian
      accounting standards certified by Chartered Accountant in practice within the terms
      and meaning of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 on the financial statements/
      results of the issuing company for each of the three financial years immediately
      preceding the date of prospectus including the profits or losses, assets, liabilities and
      cash-flow statement of the issuing company at the last date to which the accounts of
      the issuing company were made in the specified form:
      Provided that the gap between date of opening of issue and date of report shall not
      exceed 120 days.
(i)   The report prepared by the Chartered Accountants should disclose financial
      statements in Indian Rupees (at the closing rate of exchange, as at the date on which
      the financial information is presented), compiled in a tabular form and include the
      consolidated or unconsolidated income statement, consolidated or unconsolidated
      cash flow statements, consolidated or unconsolidated balance sheet and the
      capitalisation statement required under item (13).
(j)   The interim financial statements in respect of the period ending on a date which is less
      than 180 days prior to the date of opening of the issue have to be included in report, if
      the gap between the ending date of the latest financial statements disclosed above and
      the date of the opening of the issue is more than 180 days:
      Provided that if the gap between such date of latest audited financial statements and
      the date of opening of issue is 180 days or less, the requirement above shall be
      deemed to be complied with if disclosures in respect of material changes in the
      financial position of issuing company for such gap are disclosed in the prospectus.
(k)   If the proceeds of the IDR issue are used for investing in other body(ies) corporate,
      following details of such body(ies) corporate shall be given:
      (i)   Names and address of the body(ies) corporate;

                                          379
           (ii)    The reports as stated above in respect of those body(ies) corporate also.


(16) Statement on material developments subsequent to the date of the last financial
     statements as disclosed in the offer document:
     A statement by the directors of the issuing company whether in their opinion there have
     arisen any circumstances since the date of the last financial statements as disclosed in the
     prospectus any which materially and adversely affect or is likely to affect the trading or
     profitability of the issuing company, or the value of its assets, or its ability to pay its
     liabilities within the next twelve months, and if so, an outline of such circumstances and an
     assessment of their likely impact.


(17) Management discussion and analysis of the financial statements (by comparing the
     recent financial year with the previous three financial years):
     (a)   A summary of the past financial results after adjustments as given in the auditors
           report for the past three years containing significant items of income and expenditure
           shall be given
     (b)   Overview of the business of the issuing company
     (c)   Factors that may affect the results of the operations
     (d)   An analysis of reasons for the changes in significant items of income and expenditure
           , inter alia, containing the following:
           (i)     unusual or infrequent events or transaction
           (ii)    significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to effect
                   income from continuing operations
           (iii)   known trends or uncertainties that have had or are expected to have a material
                   adverse impact on sales, revenue or income from continuing operations
           (iv)    future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case of events
                   such as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that will cause a
                   material change are known
           (v)     extent to which material increases in net sales or revenue are due to increased
                   sales volume, introduction of new products or services or increased sales prices
           (vi)    total turnover of each major industry segment in which the issuing company
                   operated
           (vii) status of any publicly announced new products or business segment
           (viii) extent to which business is seasonal
           (ix)    any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers

                                                 380
           (x)     competitive conditions


(18) Industry and business overview:
     Market including details of the competition, past production numbers for the industry,
     existing industry capacity, past trends and future prospects regarding exports (if applicable),
     demand and supply forecasts (if given, should be essentially with assumptions unless
     sourced from a market research agency of repute), etc. Source of data shall be mentioned.


(19) Details of the issuing company:
     (a)   Main object, history and present business of the issuing company
     (b)   Location of the project, if any
     (c)   Installed capacity and the details of plant and machinery, infrastructure facilities,
           technology etc., where applicable
     (d)   Schedule of implementation of the project and progress made so far, if applicable
     (e)   Nature of product(s)/ services, consumer(s), industrial user(s)
     (f)   Research and development, patents and licenses, etc.
     (g)   Property, plants and equipment
     (h)   Financial and other defaults, if any
     (i)   Underwriting
     (j)   Experts
     (k)   Where you can find additional information
     (l)   Enforcement of civil liabilities against foreign persons


(20) Subsidiaries and associates of the issuing company:
     (a)   The following information for the last three years based on the audited statements in
           respect of subsidiaries and associates of the issuing company:
           (i)     Date of incorporation
           (ii)    Nature of activities
           (iii)   Equity capital
           (iv)    Reserves (excluding revaluation reserve)
           (v)     Sales
           (vi)    Profit After Tax (PAT)
           (vii)   Earnings Per Share (EPS) and
           (viii) Net Asset Value (NAV)



                                                  381
      (b)    If the subsidiaries and associates are not required to prepare such audited statements
             as per the laws prevailing in those countries, the same may be certified as true and
             correct by the Board of Directors and the management of such companies, provided a
             certificate from a certified public accountant or equivalent practicing in the concerned
             country is submitted to the Board.


(21) Management:
      (a)    Details with respect to the promoters and their background. If there are no identifiable
             promoters, the details and background of all persons who hold 5 per cent. or more
             equity share capital of the issuer.
      (b)    Details of the board of directors 707[, the key managerial personnel and senior
             management] (i.e. name, address of directors, manager, managing director or other
             principal officers of the issuing company, date of birth, age, qualifications, industry
             experience, other directorships).
                                                   708
      (c)    Remuneration of the Directors               [, the key managerial personnel and senior
             management]       with    detailed    breakup,     sitting   fees,    their   relation    with
             promoters/controlling shareholder(s), if any, their equity holding in the issuing
             company, duration of their association with the issuing company.
      (d)    Organisation structure.
      (e)    Practices of the Board of Directors
      (f)    Employees


(22) Securities market of the country of incorporation where the shares are listed:
      (a)    Brief history
      (b)    Stock exchange regulations
      (c)    Listing regulations
      (d)    Details of the securities market regulator of the country of the issuing company
      (e)    Whether the securities market regulator of the country of the issuing company has
             signed any MoU with the Board/IOSCO
      (f)    Disclosure under the Companies Act and Securities Regulations (or equivalent
             thereof)



707
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “and the key managerial personnel”.
708
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “and the key managerial personnel”.

                                                   382
     (g)   Stock exchanges
     (h)   Takeover Code/Buy back Code
     (i)   Reforms in some key sectors of the economy
     (j)   Restriction on foreign ownership of securities
     (k)   Overview of the financial sector
     (l)   Nature of the securities trading market in that country
     (m) A statement of how the enforcement of Indian securities laws would be affected by
           the fact that the issuing company is located outside India
     (n)   A comparative analysis of the corporate governance provisions that would be
           followed by the issuing company vis-à-vis that is applicable to Indian listed
           companies


(23) Description of the IDR and rights of IDR holders:
     (a)   Brief description of the IDR
     (b)   Dividends, other distributions and rights of IDR holders
     (c)   Voting rights if any and the manner of their exercise by IDR holders, if any
     (d)   Record dates and how the same will be disclosed.
     (e)   Reports and other communication to which the IDR holders will be entitled.
     (f)   Procedure of conversion of IDR into shares
     (g)   Governing law regarding various aspects of IDR and transactions therein


(24) Provisions regarding transfer of shares and depository receipts:
     (a)   Provisions regarding transfer of IDR
     (b)   Outline of provisions regarding transfer of underlying shares after conversion


(25) Information relating to the depository - Indian and international:
     Brief details of the domestic depository, overseas custodian bank and depository agreement.


(26) Approvals of the government/regulatory authorities:
     Information relating to statutory and regulatory approvals required in home country for the
     issue and the related aspects and their status, and approvals from Indian regulatory
     authorities


(27) Taxation framework in India and the country of incorporation/ where shares are
     listed:

                                               383
     Information relating to relevant provisions of taxation law, tax treaties and their impact for
     IDR holders


(28) Outstanding litigations and defaults:
     (a)    Material litigation/liabilities/defaults including arrears/potential liabilities of the
            issuing company, its promoters/controlling shareholders/directors and its subsidiaries
            and associates.
     (b)    Materiality shall be determined on the basis of factors which are specific to the project
            and to the issuing company, its promoters/controlling shareholders/directors, its
            subsidiaries and associates, which may have a bearing on the performance of the
            issuing company.
     (c)    Materiality shall be decided taking the following factors into account:
           (i)     Some litigation/defaults may not be material individually but may be material
                   when considered collectively.
           (ii)    Some litigation/defaults may have material impact which is qualitative though
                   not quantitative.
           (iii)   Some litigation/defaults may not be material at present but may have a material
                   impact in the future.


(29) Basis of issue price:
     (a)    Earnings Per Share (EPS) pre-issue for the last three years (as adjusted for changes in
            capital)
     (b)    P/E pre-issue
     (c)    Average return on net worth in the last three years
     (d)    Minimum return on increased net worth required to maintain pre-issue EPS
     (e)    Net Asset Value per share based on last balance sheet
     (f)    Net Asset Value per share after issue and comparison thereof with the issue price
     (g)    Comparison of all the accounting ratios of the issuing company as mentioned above
            with the industry average and with the accounting ratios of the peer group (i.e.
            companies of shares and of the IDR). The aggregate face value of the total equity
            shares underlying a single comparable size in the same industry. [The source from
            which industry average and accounting ratios of the peer group has been taken
            should be indicated].
     (h)    The face value of the IDR shall also be given.



                                                   384
              Provided that the projected earnings shall not be used as a justification for the issue
              price in the prospectus.
              Provided further that the accounting ratios disclosed in the prospectus in support of
              basis of the issue price shall be calculated after giving effect to the consequent
              increase in capital on account of compulsory conversions outstanding, as well as on
              the assumption that the options outstanding, if any, to subscribe for additional capital
              will be exercised.


(30) Main provisions of articles of association/main charter of the issuing company


(31) Material contracts and documents for inspection:
        Place at which inspection of the documents specified under rule 7 of the Companies (Issue
        of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004, the prospectus, the financial statements and
        auditor's report thereof will be allowed during the normal business hours.


(32) Other information:
        (a)   Disclosure of mandatory vetting of the prospectus by the legal counsel to the issuing
              company operating at the place where the registered office of the Issuing company is
              situated.
        (b)   Consent of the lead manager(s), overseas custodian bank, the domestic depository and
              all other intermediaries associated with the issue of IDRs.
        (c)   Fees and expenses payable to the intermediaries involved in the issue of IDRs.


          Part B - Disclosures in an abridged prospectus for Indian depository receipts
                                         [See regulation 193(1)]


General Instructions:
(I)       A copy of the abridged prospectus shall be submitted to the Board.
(II)      The abridged prospectus shall be printed in a booklet form of A4 size paper and, along
          with the application form and revision form, shall not exceed five sheets, printed both
          sides. Additional sheets may be appended for bidding centres.
(III)     The abridged prospectus shall be printed in a font size which shall not be visually smaller
          than Times New Roman size 11 (or equivalent) with 1.0 line spacing.
(IV)      The application form shall be so positioned that on the tearing-off of the application form,
          no part of the abridged prospectus is mutilated.

                                                  385
(V)     The format of the abridged prospectus should include the following:


The abridged prospectus for the issue of Indian Depository Receipts (IDR) shall contain the
following disclosures:


(1)   General Information:
      (a)     The name of the issuing company and address of the registered office of the issuing
              company, along with telephone number, e-mail address and website address, and if
              there has been a change in the address of the registered office or name of the issuing
              company, details thereof.
      (b)     Name, address and contact information of the registered office of the issuing
              company;
      (c)     Name, address and contact information of the domestic depository, the overseas
              custodian bank with the address of its office in India, the lead manager(s), the
              underwriter to the issue, the advisors to the issue and any other intermediary which
              has been appointed in connection with the issue of IDRs;
      (d)     Name, address and contact information of the compliance officer in relation to the
              issue of IDRs. The compliance officer should be based in India
      (e)     Name, address and contact information of the stock exchanges where applications
              have been made or are proposed to be made for listing of the IDRs;
      (f)     Date of opening of issue;
      (g)     Date of closing of issue;
      (h)     Method and expected timetable of the issue;
      (i)     Date of earliest closing of the issue;
      (j)     Details of availability of prospectus and forms, i.e., date, time, place etc.;
      (k)     Amount and mode of payment seeking issue of IDRs;
      (l)     Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System;
      (m) Undertaking that the issuing company shall subject itself to the jurisdiction of the
              Indian Courts having jurisdiction over the place where the stock exchange is situated
              regarding grievances of the IDR applicants and IDR holders.


(2)   Capital Structure of the Issuing Company:


        Sr.    Particulars                    Pre Issue number of % Holding of Pre Issue



                                                   386
        No.                                   shares

        1.       Promoter & Promoter
                 Group
        2.       Public
                 Total
      Note: Information required for each class of shares


(3)   Terms of the Present Issue:
       Issue details, including issue size
       Names of stock exchanges where IDRs are proposed to be listed
       Designated stock exchange
       Procedure
       Indicative timeline


(4)   Instructions for Applicants:
      (a)     How to apply, availability of prospectus, abridged prospectus and application forms,
              mode of payment and book building procedure, if relevant.
      (b)     In the application form, the declaration relating to nationality and residency shall be
              shown prominently as under:
              "Nationality and Residency (Tick whichever is applicable)
              (i)     I am/We are Indian National(s) resident in India and I am/We are not applying
                      for the said equity shares as nominee(s) of any person resident outside India or
                      Foreign National(s).
              (ii)    I am/We are Indian National(s) resident in India and I am/We are applying for
                      the said equity shares as Power of Attorney holder(s) of Non- Resident Indian(s)
                      mentioned below on non-repatriation basis.
              (iii)   I am/We are Indian National(s) resident outside India and I am/We are applying
                      for the said equity shares on my/our own behalf on non-repatriation basis."
      (c)     The application form should contain necessary instructions/provisions for the
              following:
              (i)     Instructions to applicants to mention the number of application form on the
                      reverse of the instruments to avoid misuse of instruments submitted along with
                      the applications for shares/debentures in public issues.




                                                    387
            (ii)    Provision in the application form for inserting particulars relating to bank
                    account number and the name of the bank with whom such account is held, to
                    enable printing of the said details in the refund orders or for refunds through
                    Electronic Clearing System.
            (iii)   Instruction to applicants to disclose Permanent Account Number in the
                    application form, irrespective of the amount for which application/bid is made,
                    along with the instruction that applications without Permanent Account Number
                    would be rejected.
            (iv)    PAN/GIR number.
            (v)     Details of options, if any, to receive securities subscribed for and a statement
                    that trading in securities on the stock exchanges in physical form will be
                    available only subject to limits prescribed by the Board.
      (d)   Any special tax benefits for issuing company and its shareholders (Only section
            numbers of the Income Tax Act and their substance should be mentioned, without
            reproducing the text of the sections).
      (e)   Restrictions on investments in IDRs/fungibility of IDRs.


(5)   Particulars of the Issue:
      (a)   Objects of the issue
      (b)   Project cost
      (c)   Means of financing
      (d)   Name of the Appraising Agency, if any
      (e)   Name of the Monitoring Agency, if any


(6)   Description of the IDRs and Rights of IDR Holders:
      (a)   Brief description of the IDRs
      (b)   Dividends, other distributions and rights of IDR holders
      (c)   Voting rights and their manner of exercise by IDR holders, if any
      (d)   Record dates and how the same will be disclosed
      (e)   Reports and other communication to which the IDR holders will be entitled
      (f)   Conversion procedure of IDRs into shares
      (g)   Governing law regarding various aspects of IDRs and transactions therein.


(7)   Business Model/ Business Overview and Strategy (500 word limit in total)



                                                  388
(8)   Exchange-wise stock market data:
      This information should updated as on the last available date before the date of the
      prospectus
      (a) Market price of shares for each quarter of the last three calendar years preceding the
           calendar year preceding the year of the issue of the prospectus (High, Low, Average
           Daily Trading Volume)
      (b) Market price of shares for each month of the calendar year preceding the year of the
           issue of the prospectus (High, Low, Average Daily Trading Volume)
      (c) Market price of shares for the month preceding the date of the prospectus (High, Low,
           Average Daily Trading Volume)
      (d) The Opening and Closing price on the last day of the preceding month of the date of
           the prospectus along with the volume


(9)   Internal Risk Factors: Minimum 5 and maximum 10 risk factors to be specified (500 word
      limit in total)


(10) Outstanding Material Litigations and Defaults
      A. Total number of outstanding litigations against the company and amount involved
      B. Brief details of top 5 material outstanding litigations against the company and amount
         involved
         Sr. No.        Particulars     Litigation filed by Current status      Amount involved




(11) Material Developments: Any material development after the date of the latest balance
      sheet and its impact on performance and prospects of the company.


(12) Board of Directors
                                           Designation          Experience including current / past
                                          (Independent/        position held in other firms (20 - 40
         Sr.                              Whole time /               words for each Director)



                                               389
            No.             Name                Executive /
                                                 Nominee)




(13) Financial Performance of the Issuing company for the last three years (Figures to be
      taken from the audited annual accounts in a tabular form):
      (a)     Balance Sheet Data: Equity Capital, Reserves (State Revaluation Reserve, the year of
              revaluation and its monetary effect on assets) and borrowings
      (b)     Profit and Loss data: Sales, Gross profit, Net profit, dividend paid, if any
      (c)     Any change in accounting policies during the last three years and their effect on the
              profits and the reserves of the issuing company
      (d)     Following information as extracted from the report of the auditors reproduced in the
              main prospectus:
             (i)     net profit before accounting for extra ordinary items
             (ii)    extra ordinary items
             (iii)   net profit after accounting for extra ordinary items


(14) Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System


(15) Information relating to relevant provisions of taxation law, tax treaties and their impact for
      IDR holders.


(16) Brief details of the domestic depository, overseas custodian bank and depository agreement.


(17) Signatories to the Prospectus.


    Part C - Disclosures in the addendum to an offer document for rights issue of Indian
                                            depository receipts
                                            [See regulation 218 (2)]


(1) A listed issuer making a rights issue of IDRs shall make the disclosures as specified in this
    Part in the form of an addendum to the offer document.




                                                    390
(2) Notwithstanding the above, where disclosures of matters similar or equivalent to those set out
    in this Schedule are required by home country regulations to be made in a particular form or
    by reference to particular requirements of such regulations, the same shall prevail over the
    requirements of this Schedule and shall be deemed to be complied with by disclosures made
    in the offer document on the basis of the home country regulations, but a reference shall be
    made in the addendum, to the concerned page numbers of the offer document where such
    disclosures are made.


   (I) Cover page:
       (A) Front cover page:
           (1)   The front outside cover page of the addendum for a rights offering shall contain
                 the following details:
                 (a) The name of the issuer, its logo, address of its registered office, principal
                     office in India, its telephone number, fax number, contact person, website
                     address and e-mail address.
                 (b) The number and price of IDRs offered and issue size, as may be applicable.
                 (c) The following disclaimer and advisory on general risk:
                     "Investment in IDRs involves a degree of risk and investors should not invest
                     any funds in this offer unless they can afford to take the risk of losing their
                     investment. Investors are advised to read the risk factors carefully before
                     taking an investment decision in this offering. For taking an investment
                     decision, investors must rely on their own examination of the issuer and the
                     offer including the risks involved. The securities being offered in the issue
                     have not been recommended or approved by Securities and Exchange Board
                     of India (SEBI) nor does SEBI guarantee the accuracy or adequacy of this
                     document."
                 (d) Specific attention of investors shall be invited to the statement of “Risk
                     factors” given on page number(s) ….. under the section “General Risks”.
                 (e) Save where a form of responsibility statement is required in the offer
                     document in accordance with the home country regulations, the following
                     clause on ‘Issuer’s Absolute Responsibility’ shall be incorporated in a box
                     format:
                     “The issuer, having made all reasonable inquiries, accepts responsibility for
                     and confirms that the offer document and the addendum contains all
                     information with regard to the issuer and the issue, which is material in the

                                                391
                 context of the issue, that the information contained in the offer document and
                 the addendum is true and correct in all material respects and is not
                 misleading in any material respect, that the opinions and intentions expressed
                 herein are honestly held and that there are no other facts, the omission of
                 which make these documents as a whole or any of such information or the
                 expression of any such opinions or intentions misleading in any material
                 respect.”
             (f) The name, logo and address of the lead manager(s) and the designation of the
                 officers/employees who have signed the due diligence certificate and filed
                 the offer document and the addendum with the Board, along with their
                 telephone numbers, fax numbers, website addresses and e-mail addresses.


             (g) The name, logo and address of the registrar to the issue, along with its
                 telephone number, fax number, website address and e-mail address.
             (h) Issue schedule:
                  (i) Date of opening of the issue.
                  (ii) Date of closing of the issue.
                  (iii) Last date for request for split.
                  (iv) The names of the stock exchanges where the IDRs of the issuer are
                       listed and the details of in-principle approval for listing of the IDRs
                       proposed to be offered in the rights issue.


   (B) Back cover pages: The back inside cover page and back outside cover page of the
       addendum shall be in white.


(II) Instructions for applicants:
   (A) Disclosure in relation to the process for announcement of record date, terms of
       payments and procedure and time schedule for allotment and issue of certificates,
       credit of IDRs to the investors’ demat account.
   (B) How to apply, availability of application forms and offer document for rights offering
       and mode of payment for all category of investors.
   (C) A statement that the IDR holders who have not received the application form may,
       along with the requisite application money, apply in writing on a plain paper.
   (D) The format to enable the IDR holders to make the application on plain paper
       specifying therein necessary particulars such as name, address, ratio of rights issue,

                                             392
       issue price, number of IDRs held, ledger folio numbers, depository participant ID,
       client ID, number of IDRs entitled and applied for, additional IDRs if any, amount to
       be paid along with application, and particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of
       the issuer’s account.
   (E) A statement that the IDR holders making the application otherwise than on the
       application form shall not renounce their rights and shall not utilise the application
       form for any purpose including renunciation even if it is received subsequently.
   (F) Provisions relating to punishment for fictitious applications, including the disclosures
       that any person who:
       (a) makes in a fictitious name an application to a company for acquiring, or
           subscribing for, any IDRs therein, or
       (b) otherwise induces a company to allot, or register any transfer of, IDRs therein to
           such person, or any other person in a fictitious name, shall be punishable in
           accordance with the provisions of law.
   (G) Mode of making refunds:
              (1) The mode in which the issuer shall make refunds to applicants in case of
                   oversubscription or failure to list.
              (2) If the issuer proposes to use more than one mode of making refunds to
                   applicants, the respective cases where each such mode will be adopted
                   shall be disclosed.


(III) General information:
  (A) Name, address and contact information including telephone numbers, fax numbers,
       contact person, website addresses and e-mail addresses of the domestic depository, the
       overseas custodian bank with the address of its office in India, the merchant banker,
       the underwriter to the issue, syndicate member(s), bankers to the issue, self certified
       syndicate banks, auditors of the issuer, legal advisors to the issue and any other
       intermediary which may be appointed in connection with the issue of IDRs.
  (B) Names, addresses and contact information of experts and counsel.
  (C) The names, addresses, telephone numbers, fax numbers and e-mail addresses of the
       Company Secretary and compliance officer of the issuer in India.
  (D) The statement of inter-se allocation of responsibilities among lead manager(s), where
       more than one merchant banker is associated with the issue.
  (E) The details of underwriting of the IDRs, if any:



                                             393
              (1) The names, address, telephone numbers, fax numbers and e-mail address
                   of the underwriters and the amount underwritten by them.
              (2) A declaration by the board of directors of the issuer that, as far as the
                   directors are aware, the underwriters of IDRs have sufficient resources to
                   discharge their respective obligations.
  (F) In case of partial underwriting of the issue, the extent of underwriting.
  (G) The details of final underwriting arrangement in the addendum for rights offering filed
       with the designated stock exchange, indicating actual number of IDRs underwritten.
  (H) Method and expected timetable of the issue.
  (I) A statement by the issuing company that all monies received out of issue of IDR shall
       be transferred to a separate domestic bank account, name and address of the bank and
       the nature and number of the account to which the amount shall be credited.
  (J) Details of availability of the offer document along with the addendum and forms, i.e.,
       date, time, place etc.
  (K) Amount and mode of payment seeking issue of IDRs.
  (L) A brief statement about the history, corporate structure and business overview of the
       issuer and major events in the past.
  (M) A brief status or statement on the compliance status of the issuer of its obligations
       under Depositary Agreement and the provisions of the listing agreement entered
       between the issuer and the stock exchanges, wherever its securities are listed, including
       the listing agreement entered with stock exchanges in India.


(IV) Management (Board of Directors):
  (A) Name, date of birth, age, qualifications, experience, address, occupation and date of
       expiration of the current term of office of executive or whole time directors, giving
       their directorships in other companies, as the case may be.
  (B) The nature of any family relationship between any of the directors.
  (C) Any arrangement or understanding with major shareholders, customers, suppliers or
       others, pursuant to which of the directors was selected as a director or member of
       senior management.
  (D) Details of service contracts entered into by the directors with the issuer providing for
       benefits upon termination of employment and a distinct negative statement in the
       absence of any such contract.


(V) Financial information of the issuer:

                                              394
  (A)   Convenience translation of the latest annual audited statements of consolidated profit
        and losses, assets and liabilities and cash flows, in Indian Rupees at the closing rate of
        exchange, as at the date on which the financial information is presented, as filed with
        the stock exchanges, pursuant to relevant provisions of the Securities and Exchange
        Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
  (B)   Convenience translation of the latest periodical financial results, in Indian Rupees (at
        the closing rate of exchange as at the date on which the financial information is
        presented), as filed with the stock exchanges, pursuant to relevant provisions of the
        Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
        Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
  (C)   One standard financial unit shall be used in the Letter of Offer.
  (D)   Link from where the investors can download the soft copy of detailed Annual Report
        of the issuer and their periodical filings.


(VI) Risk factors:
  (A)   Risk factors shall be disclosed as follows:
        (1) Risk factors associated with the issuing company’s business
        (2) Risk factors associated with the country of the issuing company proposing to issue
            IDR
        (3) Risk factors associated with the IDR / underlying shares
 (B)    Risk factors shall be classified as those which are specific to the project and internal to
        the issuing company and those which are external and beyond the control of the
        issuing company.
 (C)    Risk factors shall be determined on the basis of their materiality. Materiality shall be
        decided taking the following factors into account:
        (1) Some events may not be material individually but may be found material
             collectively
        (2) Some events may have material impact qualitatively instead of quantitatively
        (3) Some events may not be material at present but may be having material impacts
             in future.


(VII) Capital structure:
  (A)   The authorised, issued and subscribed capital after suitable incorporation of the
        outstanding convertible securities (number of securities, description and aggregate
        nominal value).

                                               395
  (B)   Paid-up capital.(segregating IDRs).
  (C)   The following details of outstanding instruments:
        (1) Details of options, if any.
        (2) Details of convertible securities, if any.


  (D)   The shareholding pattern and IDR holding pattern as per the latest filing with the stock
        exchange(s).
  (E)   The details of the shareholders holding more than three per cent. of the share capital of
        the issuer.
  (F)   The details of IDRs lock-in, pledge of and encumbrance on such IDRs held by
        promoters, if applicable.
  (G)   The details of IDRs acquired by promoters and promoter group, if applicable in the last
        six months immediately preceding the date of filing of the offer document along with
        addendum for rights offering with the designated stock exchange, in case of a fast
        track issue and in any other case, the date of filing draft offer document along with
        addendum for rights offering with the Board.


(VIII) Particulars of the issue:
  (A)   Objects of the Issue:
               (1)    The purpose of the issue.
               (2)    Break-up of the cost of project for which the money is raised through the
                      IDR issue.
               (3)    The means of financing such project.
               (4)    The proposed deployment status of the proceeds at each stage of the
                      project.
               (5)    Interest of promoters (if any) and directors, as applicable to the project or
                      objects of the issue.
  (B)   Interim Use of Funds: The issuer company shall keep funds in a bank having a credit
        rating of 'A' or above by an international credit rating agency.
  (C)   Any special tax benefits to the IDR holders.


(IX) Market price information and other information concerning the shares/ IDRs:
         Following information should be provided exchange-wise, if the securities are listed
         in more than one exchange. This information should be updated as on last practicable
         date before the date of the offer document.

                                              396
  (A)   Week-end prices for the last four weeks and highest and lowest prices of equity shares
        during the period with the relative dates.
  (B)   Stock market quotation of shares of the company (high/low price in each of the last
        three years and monthly high/low price during the last six months).
  (C)   The same details shall be provided for IDRs listed in stock exchange.


(X) Exchange rates:
  (A)   Brief history of the pattern of exchange rates between the country of
        incorporation/where shares are listed and India.
  (B)   High, Low, Average Rates for the last twelve months.


(XI) Material litigations and defaults:
  (A)   Material litigation/liabilities/defaults including arrears/potential liabilities of the
        issuing company, its promoters/controlling shareholders/directors and its subsidiaries
        and associates.
  (B)   Materiality shall be determined on the basis of factors which are specific to the project
        and to the issuing company, its promoters/controlling shareholders/directors, its
        subsidiaries and associates, which may have a bearing on the performance of the
        issuing company.
  (C)   Materiality shall be decided taking the following factors into account:
        (1)   Some litigation/defaults may not be material individually but may be found
              material collectively.
        (2)   Some litigation/defaults may have material impact qualitatively instead of
              quantitatively.
        (3)   Some litigation/defaults may not be material at present but may be having a
              material impact in future.


(XII) Material development:
         Any material development after the date of the latest balance sheet and its impact on
         performance and prospects of the issuer in accordance with the home country
         regulations.


(XIII) Material contracts and documents for inspection:



                                             397
         Place at which inspection of the documents specified under rule 7 of the Companies
         (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004, the offer document along with the
         addendum, the financial statements and auditor's report thereof will be allowed
         during the normal business hours.


(XIV) Other regulatory and statutory disclosures:
  (A)   Authority for the issue and details of resolution passed for the issue.
  (B)   A statement by the issuer that the issuer, promoters, directors or person(s) in control of
        the promoter or the issuer, if applicable, have not been prohibited from accessing or
        operating in the capital markets or restrained from buying, selling or dealing in
        securities under any order or direction passed by the Board or the securities regulator
        of its home country.
  (C)   It may be disclosed whether the issuer, promoters, the relatives of promoters, group
        companies, if applicable, are identified as wilful defaulters in India or in its home
        country.
  (D)   Disclaimer clauses:
        The addendum for rights offering shall contain the following disclaimer clauses in bold
        capital letters:
        (1)   Disclaimer Statement with respect to SEBI:
              (To be written in bold capital letter)
              "It is to be distinctly understood that submission of the offer document and the
              addendum to SEBI should not in any way be deemed or construed that the same
              has been cleared or approved by SEBI. SEBI does not take any responsibility
              either for the financial soundness of any scheme or the project for which the issue
              is proposed to be made or for the correctness of the statements made or opinions
              expressed in the offer document and the addendum. Lead manager(s), has certified
              that the disclosures made in the addendum are generally adequate and are in
              conformity with SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
              Regulations, 2018 in force for the time being. This requirement is to facilitate
              investors to take an informed decision for making investment in the proposed
              issue.


              It should also be clearly understood that while the issuer is primarily responsible
              for the correctness, adequacy and disclosure of all relevant information in the
              addendum, the lead manager(s) is expected to exercise due diligence to ensure that

                                               398
    the issuer discharges its responsibility adequately in this behalf and towards this
    purpose, the lead manager(s) ……. has furnished to the Securities and Exchange
    Board of India (SEBI) a due diligence certificate dated …….which reads as
    follows: (due diligence certificate submitted to the Board to be reproduced here)


    The filing of the offer document along with the addendum does not, however,
    absolve the issuer from any liabilities under the Companies (Issue of Indian
    Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004 or from the requirement of obtaining such
    statutory or other clearances as may be required for the purpose of the proposed
    issue. SEBI further reserves the right to take up, at any point of time, with the lead
    manager(s) any irregularities or lapses in the offer document and the addendum."


(2) Disclaimer Statement from the issuer and lead manager(s):
     A statement to the effect that the issuer and the lead manager(s) accept no
     responsibility for statements made otherwise than in the offer document for the
     rights offering or in the advertisement or any other material issued by or at the
     instance of the issuer and that anyone placing reliance on any other source of
     information would be doing so at their own risk.


    Investors who invest in the issue will be deemed to have been represented by the
    issuer and lead manager and their respective directors, officers, agents, affiliates
    and representatives that they are eligible under all applicable laws, rules,
    regulations, guidelines and approvals to acquire IDRs of the Company, and are
    relying on independent advice / evaluation as to their ability and quantum of
    investment in this issue.


(3) Disclaimer in respect of jurisdiction: A brief paragraph mentioning the jurisdiction
    under which provisions of law and the rules and regulations are applicable to the
    offer document for rights offering.


(4) Disclaimer statement of the stock exchanges, if any.


(5) Disclaimer statement of the Reserve Bank of India (if applicable).




                                    399
  (E)     Broad details of fees payable to various intermediaries involved in the IDR rights
          offering.


  (F)     Arrangements or any mechanism evolved by the issuer for redressal of investor
          grievances in respect of IDRs and the time normally taken by it for disposal of various
          types of investor grievances.


(XV) Undertakings by the issuer in connection with the issue:
    The issuer shall undertake that:
    (1)     the complaints received in respect of the issue shall be attended to by the issuer
            expeditiously and satisfactorily.
    (2)     that steps for completion of the necessary formalities for listing and commencement
            of trading at all stock exchanges where the IDRs are to be listed are taken within
            seven working days of closing of the issue.
    (3)     funds required for making refunds to unsuccessful applicants as per the mode(s)
            disclosed shall be made available to the registrar to the issue by the issuer.
    (4)     that where refunds are made through electronic transfer of funds, a suitable
            communication shall be sent to the applicant within 15 days of closure of the issue
            giving details of the bank where refunds shall be credited along with amount and
            expected date of electronic credit of refund.
    (5)     that adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all applications.
    (6)     that adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all ASBA applications and to
            consider them similar to non-ASBA applications while finalizing the basis of
            allotment.
    (7)     that the IDRs shall be credited to the demat account / refunds made within a period
            of fifteen days and interest in case of delay in refund at the prescribed rate.


(XVI) Utilisation of issue proceeds: The addendum for the rights offering shall contain a
        statement of the board of directors of the issuer in relation to the use of issue proceeds.


(XVII) Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any:
           (A) Investment by NRIs.
           (B) Investment by [foreign portfolio investors].


(XVIII)      Any other material disclosures (as deemed necessary):

                                                400
(XIX) Declaration:
   (A)    The addendum for the rights offering shall be approved by the Board of Directors
          of the issuer and shall be signed by all directors, the Chief Executive Officer, i.e.,
          the Managing Director or Manager within the meaning of the respective applicable
          corporate laws of the home country and the Chief Financial Officer, i.e., the whole-
          time finance director or any other person heading the finance function and
          discharging that function.
   (B)    The following statement shall be disclosed:
              “No statement made in this addendum contravenes any of the provisions of the
              applicable corporate laws in the home country or of provisions of Companies
              (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004. All the legal requirements
              connected with the issue as also the Regulations, guidelines, instructions, etc.,
              issued by SEBI, Government and any other competent authority in this behalf,
              have been duly complied with.”
   (C)    The signatories shall further certify that all disclosures made in the offer document
          and the addendum for rights offering are true and correct.




                                           401
     Part D - Disclosures in an abridged letter of offer for rights issue of Indian depository
                                                   receipts
                                           [See regulation 222(1)]


(1) A listed issuer making a rights issue of IDRs shall make disclosures, as required under its
      home country regulations, if any, and as specified in Part B of this Schedule, in the abridged
      letter of offer for rights offering.
(2) Notwithstanding the above, where disclosures of matters similar or equivalent to those set
      out in this Schedule are required to be made in a particular form or by reference to particular
      requirements of home country regulations, the same shall prevail over the requirements of
      this Schedule and shall be deemed to be complied with by such disclosures made in the offer
      document on the basis of the home country regulations.
(3) The order in which items shall appear in the abridged letter of offer for rights offering shall
      correspond, wherever applicable, to the order in which items appear in the offer document
      and the addendum for rights offering.
(4) The abridged letter of offer for rights offering shall also include the following disclosures:
      (a)          Provisions pertaining to applications forms;
      (b)          Rights entitlement ratio;
      (c)          Fractional entitlements;
      (d)          Renunciation;
      (e)          Application for Additional IDRs;
      (f)          Intention of promoters to subscribe to their rights entitlement, if any.


(5) General Instructions:
      1. The information to be provided under each of the heads specified below shall be as per the
            requirement of Part A of this Schedule except when specified otherwise.
      2. The abridged prospectus shall be printed in a font size which shall not be visually smaller
            than Times New Roman size 11 (or equivalent) with 1.0 line spacing.
      3. The application form shall be so positioned that on the tearing-off of the application form,
            no part of the information given in the abridged letter of offer is mutilated.


The abridged letter of offer for the issue of Indian Depository Receipts (IDR) shall contain the
following disclosures:


I.    Instructions for applicants:

                                                     402
      How to apply, availability of letter of offer, abridged letter of offer and application forms,
      mode of payment and how to apply through white sheet, if relevant.


II.   General information:
      (A)   The name of the issuing company and address of the registered office of the issuing
            company, along with telephone number, fax number, e-mail address and website
            address, and where there has been a change in the address of the registered office or
            name of the issuing company, details thereof.
      (B)   Name, address and contact information of the principal office of the issuing company
            in India.
      (C)   Name, address and contact information of the domestic depository, the overseas
            custodian bank with the address of its office in India, the merchant banker, the
            underwriter to the issue, advisors to the issue and any other intermediary which may be
            appointed in connection with the issue of IDRs.
      (D)   Names, addresses and contact information of experts and counsel.
      (E)   Name, address and contact information of the compliance officer in relation to the
            issue of IDRs. The compliance officer should be placed in India.
      (F)   Name, address and contact information of stock exchanges where applications are
            made or proposed to be made for listing of the IDRs.
      (G)   Disclosure about provisions relating to punishment for fictitious applications.
      (H)   Statement/declaration for refund of excess subscription.
      (I)   Statement that an interest of 15 per cent. p.a. would be paid to the investors if the
            allotments letters / refund orders are not despatched within 15 days of the closure of
            the rights issue, as the case may be.
      (J)   Declaration about issue of allotment letters/certificates/ IDR within the stipulated
            period.
      (K)   Date of opening of issue.
      (L)   Date of closing of issue.
      (M) Last date for request for split.
      (N)   Method and Expected Timetable of the issue.
      (O)   Date of earliest closing of the issue.
      (P)   Declaration by the merchant banker with regard to adequacy of resources of
            underwriters to discharge their respective obligations, in case of being required to do
            so.



                                                     403
     (Q)   A statement by the issuing company that all monies received out of issue of IDR shall
           be transferred to a separate domestic bank account, name and address of the bank and
           the nature and number of the account to which the amount shall be credited.
     (R)   Details of availability of letter of offer and forms, i.e., date, time, place etc.
     (S)   Amount and mode of payment seeking issue of IDRs.
     (T)   Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System.
     (U)   That the issuing company undertakes to subject itself to the jurisdiction of Indian
           Courts having jurisdiction over the place where the stock exchange is situated
           regarding grievances of the IDR applicants and IDR holders.


III. Capital structure of the issuing company:
     (A)   Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid-up capital (Number of instruments,
           description, aggregate nominal value).
     (B)   Size of present issue.(Segregating issue of IDRs)
     (C)   Paid-up Capital:
                  (1) before the issue;
                  (2) after the issue (if the IDR issue involves issue of fresh equity shares); and
                  (3) share premium account (before and after the issue).


IV. Terms of the present Issue:
     (A) Authority for the issue, terms of payment and procedure and time schedule for
           allotment and issue of certificates/ refund orders.
     (B) The clause "Interest in Case of Delay in Despatch of Allotment Letters/ Refund
           Orders" shall appear.


V.   Particulars of the issue:
     (A)   Objects of the issue.
     (B)   Project cost.
     (C)   Means of financing.


VI. Company, management and project:
     (A)   History and present business of the company.
     (B)   Details of major shareholders disclosed in Letter of Offer.




                                                  404
       (C)   Names, address and occupation of manager, managing director, and other Directors
             (including nominee-directors and whole-time directors) giving their directorships in
             other companies.


VII. Outstanding material litigations and defaults (in a summarised tabular form)


VIII. Material development: Any material development after the date of the latest balance sheet
      and its impact on performance and prospects of the company.


IX.    Time and Place of Inspection of material contracts. (List of material contracts not required)


X.    Financial Performance of the Issuing company as per last completed accounting year for
      which audit has been completed and for the latest stub period for which audit/limited review
      has been completed.


XI. Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System.


XII. Brief details of the Domestic Depository, Overseas Custodian Bank and Depository
      Agreement.


XIII. Signatories to the Letter of offer.




      SCHEDULE IX – PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS AND PUBLICITY MATERIALS
             [See regulation 42 709{59C (8), 59C (9), 59C (13)}, 83, 138, 199 and 264]


(1) Any public communication including advertisements, publicity material and research reports
(referred to as public communication) issued or made by the issuer or its associate company, or by
the lead manager(s) or their associates or any other intermediary connected with the issue or their
associates, shall contain only such information as contained in the draft offer document/offer
document 710[or the draft letter of offer/letter of offer] and shall comply with the following:


709
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.
710
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.



                                                      405
(a) it shall be truthful, fair and shall not be manipulative or deceptive or distorted and it shall not
    contain any statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading;
(b) if it reproduces or purports to reproduce any information contained in the draft offer document
    or draft letter of offer or offer document, as the case may be, it shall reproduce such information
    in full and disclose all relevant facts not to be restricted to select extracts relating to that
    information;
(c) it shall be set forth in a clear, concise and understandable language;
(d) it shall not include any issue slogans or brand names for the issue except the normal commercial
    name of the issuer or commercial brand names of its products already in use or disclosed in the
    draft offer document or draft letter of offer or offer document, as the case may be;
(e) it shall not contain slogans, expletives or non-factual and unsubstantiated titles;
(f) if it presents any financial data, data for the past three years shall also be included alongwith
    particulars relating to revenue, net profit, share capital, reserves / other equity (as the case may
    be), earnings per share, dividends and the book values, to the extent applicable;
(g) issue advertisements shall not use technical, legal or complex language and excessive details
    which may distract the investor;
(h) issue advertisements shall not contain statements which promise or guarantee rapid increase in
    revenue or profits;
(i) issue advertisements shall not display models, celebrities, fictional characters, landmarks,
    caricatures or the likes;
(j) issue advertisements on television shall not appear in the form of crawlers (advertisements
    which run simultaneously with the programme in a narrow strip at the bottom of the television
    screen) on television;
(k) issue advertisements on television shall advise the viewers to refer to the draft offer document or
    offer document, as the case may be, for the risk factors;
(l) an advertisement or research report containing highlights, shall advise the readers to refer to the
    risk factors and other disclosures in the draft offer document or the offer document, as the case
    may be, for details in not less than point seven size;
(m) an issue advertisement displayed on a billboard/banners shall contain information as specified in
    Part D of Schedule X;
(n) an issue advertisement which contains highlights or information other than the details contained
    in the formats as specified in Schedule X shall prominently advise the viewers to refer to the
    draft offer document and offer document for details and risk factors.




                                                  406
(2) All public communications issued or published in any media during the period commencing
from the date of the meeting of the board of directors of the issuer in which the public issue is
approved till the date of filing draft offer document with the Board shall be consistent with its past
practices:
Provided that where such public communication is not consistent with the past practices of the
issuer, it shall be prominently displayed or announced in such public communication that the
issuer is proposing to make a public issue of specified securities in the near future and is in the
process of filing a draft offer document.


(3) All public communications issued or published in any media during the period commencing
from the date of filing draft offer document or draft letter of offer till the date of allotment of
securities offered in the issue, shall prominently disclose that the issuer is proposing to make a
public issue or rights issue of the specified securities and has filed the draft offer document or the
draft letter of offer or has filed the offer document or letter of offer , as the case may be, and that
it is available on the websites of the Board, lead manager(s) and stock exchanges.
Provided that requirements of this sub-regulation shall not be applicable in case of advertisements
of products or services of the issuer.


(4) The issuer shall make a prompt, true and fair disclosure of all material developments which
take place between the date of filing offer document and the date of allotment of specified
securities, which may have a material effect on the issuer, by issuing public notices in all the
newspapers in which the issuer had released pre-issue advertisement under applicable provisions
of these regulations;


(5) The issuer shall not, directly or indirectly, release, during any conference or at any other time,
any material or information which is not contained in the offer document.


(6) For all issue advertisements and public communications, the issuer shall obtain the approval
from the lead manager(s) responsible for marketing the issue and shall also provide copies of all
issue related materials to all lead manager(s).


(7) Any advertisement or research report issued/ made by the issuer/cause to be issued by the issuer
or its associate company (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013), or by the lead manager(s)
or their associates (as defined in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers)
Regulations, 1992) or any other intermediary connected with the issue or their associates (as

                                                  407
defined under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008) shall
comply with the following:
a)   it shall be truthful, fair and shall not be manipulative or deceptive or distorted and it shall not
     contain any statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading;
b)   if it reproduces or purports to reproduce any information contained in the draft an offer
     document or draft letter of offer or offer document, as the case may be, it shall reproduce such
     information in full and disclose all relevant facts not to be restricted to select extracts relating to
     that information;
c)   it shall be set forth in a clear, concise and understandable language;
d)   it shall not include any issue slogans or brand names for the issue except the normal
     commercial name of the issuer or commercial brand names of its products already in use or and
     disclosed in the draft offer document or draft letter of offer or offer document, as the case may
     be;
e)   if it presents any financial data, data for the past three years shall also be included along with
     particulars relating to sales, gross profit, net profit, share capital, reserves, earnings per share,
     dividends and the book values, to the extent applicable;
f)   no advertisement shall use extensive technical, legal terminology or complex language and
     excessive details which may distract the investor;
g)   no issue advertisement shall contain statements which promise or guarantee rapid increase in
     profits;
h)   no issue advertisement shall display models, celebrities, fictional characters, landmarks or
     caricatures or the likes;
i)   no issue advertisement shall appear in the form of crawlers (the advertisements which run
     simultaneously with the programme in a narrow strip at the bottom of the television screen) on
     television;
j)   in any issue advertisement on television screen, the risk factors shall not be scrolled on the
     television screen and the advertisement shall advise the viewers to refer to draft offer document
     or draft letter of offer or offer document, as the case may be, or other documents, the red
     herring prospectus or other offer document for details;
k)   no issue advertisement shall contain slogans, expletives or non-factual and unsubstantiated
     titles;
l)   if an advertisement or research report contains highlights, the advertisement or research report,
     as applicable, shall prominently advise the viewers to refer to the draft offer document or draft
     letter of offer or offer document, as the case may be, for details contains highlights, it shall also



                                                   408
       contain risk factors with equal importance in all respects including print size of not less than
       point seven size;
m)     an issue advertisement displayed on a billboard shall not contain information other than that
       specified in Part D of Schedule X;
n)     an issue advertisement which contains highlights or information other than the details contained
       in the format as specified in Schedule X shall prominently advise the viewers to refer to the
       offer document for details and risk factors.


(8) No public information with respect to the issue shall contain any offer of incentives, to the
investors whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise.


(9) No advertisement relating to product or service provided by the issuer shall contain any
reference, directly or indirectly, to the performance of the issuer during the period commencing from
the date of the resolution of the board of directors of the issuer approving the public issue till the date
of allotment of specified securities offered in such issue.


(10)     No information which is extraneous to the information disclosed in the draft offer document
or offer document, as the case may be, or otherwise, shall be given by the issuer or any member of
the issue management team or syndicate to any particular section of the investors or to any research
analyst in any manner whatsoever, including at road shows, presentations, in research or sales reports
or at bidding centres.


(11)     The lead manager(s) shall submit a compliance certificate in the format specified in Part E
of Schedule X for the period between the date of filing the draft offer document 711[/ draft letter of
offer] and the date of closure of the issue, in respect of news reports appearing in any of the
following media:
a)     newspapers mentioned in these regulations;
b)     print and electronic media controlled by a media group where the media group has a private
       treaty or shareholders’ agreement with the issuer or promoters of the issuer.


Explanation: For the purpose of this schedule:
(I)    “public communication or publicity material” includes corporate, issue advertisements of the
       issuer, interviews by its promoters, directors, duly authorized employees or representatives

711
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                      409
      of the issuer, documentaries about the issuer or its promoters, periodical reports and press
      releases.
(II) Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall be considered to be misleading, if it contains:
      a)   Statements made about the performance or activities of the issuer without necessary
           explanatory or qualifying statements, which may give an exaggerated picture of such
           performance or activities.
      b)   An inaccurate portrayal of past performance or its portrayal in a manner which implies
           that past gains or income will be repeated in the future.


                     712[SCHEDULE X: FORMATS OF ADVERTISEMENT FOR A PUBLIC


                                                         ISSUE


                   Part A - Format of pre-issue and price band advertisement for a public issue


                       [See regulations 43(2), 29(4), 127(4), 139(2), 189(4), 264(2) and 250(4)]



            THIS IS A PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY.
                     THIS IS NOT A PROSPECTUS ANNOUNCEMENT AND DOES NOT
                  CONSTITUTE AN INVITATION OR OFFER TO ACQUIRE, PURCHASE OR
                                         SUBSCRIBE TO SECURITIES.
                                          ABC Limited (Name of issuer)
             For details of changes in name and the registered office of the Company, see “History
                  and Certain Corporate Matters – Brief history of our Company” and “History and
             Certain Corporate Matters – Changes in the Registered Office” on page [-] of the red
                           herring prospectus [-] (“RHP” or “Red Herring Prospectus”).
                                               Registered Office: [-];
                                               Corporate Office: [-];
             Contact Person: [-]; Tel: [-]; E-mail: [-]; Website: [-]; Corporate Identity Number: [-]
              QR Code (Scan of QR Code should take the reader to the webpage of the left lead
             BRLM where documents relating to the issue such as the offer documents, price band
                                          advertisement etc. are available)



712
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 08.03.2025.



                                                   410
                                    PROMOTERS
                                      [__XYZ__]
                                     THE ISSUE
 Public issue of _______ (nature of the specified securities) of ____ each at a price of
                                          _____
 DETAILS OF THE SELLING SHAREHOLDERS, OFFER FOR SALE AND
    WEIGHTED AVERAGE COST OF ACQUISITION, AS APPLICABLE
(Name of selling shareholder, Type (promoter selling shareholder, investor etc.), No.
of shares offered, Aggregate proceeds from offered shares, Weighted average cost of
                     acquisition per equity share, in tabular form)
The Company has completed pre-IPO placements in a price range of Rs. [-] to Rs.
[-] per Equity Share. For further details of pre-IPO placements by the Company
from the date of the DRHP, please refer to "Additional Information to investors"
                                     herein below.


PRICE BAND: Rs. [-] TO Rs. [-] PER EQUITY SHARE OF FACE VALUE OF
                                    Rs. [-] EACH.
  THE FLOOR PRICE IS [-] TIMES THE FACE VALUE OF THE EQUITY
 SHARES AND THE CAP PRICE IS [-] TIMES THE FACE VALUE OF THE
                                 EQUITY SHARES.
THE PRICE TO EARNING RATIO BASED ON DILUTED EPS FOR FISCAL
  [-] AT THE FLOOR PRICE IS [-] TIMES AND AT THE CAP PRICE IS [-]
                                        TIMES.
(The above assumes a price band. The above may be suitably modified for fixed price
                           or floor price, as the case maybe.)
 BIDS CAN BE MADE FOR A MINIMUM OF [-] EQUITY SHARES AND IN
            MULTIPLES OF [-] EQUITY SHARES THEREAFTER.
            ANCHOR INVESTOR BIDDING DATE: [-] (as applicable)
                            BID/ ISSUE OPENS ON: [-]
                            BID/ ISSUE CLOSES ON: [-]
              Brief description of the business of the issuer company
   The issue is being made pursuant to [Regulation 6(1) or Regulation 6(2) or
Chapter IX (Initial Public Offer by Small and Medium Enterprises) or any other
  regulation as may be applicable] of the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure



                                    411
  Requirements) Regulations, 2018, as amended from time to time (SEBI ICDR
                                     Regulations)
THE EQUITY SHARES OF THE COMPANY WILL GET LISTED ON [NAME
 THE BOARD] OF [NAME THE STOCK EXCHANGES]. [NAME OF STOCK
    EXCHANGE] SHALL BE THE DESIGNATED STOCK EXCHANGE.
(In the case of book building issues, disclosure about the details of allocation shall be
        given in the following manner, as percentage of issue size/ net offer:
                                QIB Category: _____%
                               Retail Category: _____%
                     Non institutional investor category: _____%
                Reserved categories: _____Equity Shares or ____%)
   IN MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION, POTENTIAL INVESTORS
  MUST ONLY RELY ON THE INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE RED
HERRING PROSPECTUS AND THE TERMS OF THE OFFER, INCLUDING
  THE RISKS INVOLVED AND NOT RELY ON ANY OTHER EXTERNAL
 SOURCES OF INFORMATION ABOUT THE OFFER AVAILABLE IN ANY
                                      MANNER.
Recommendation of the Independent Directors of the Company on justification of
                                    the price band.
             RISKS TO INVESTORS: This will include the following:


   1. Risk to Investors: Summary description of key risk factors based on
      materiality.
   2. Details of suitable ratios such as price/ revenues, price/ earnings, enterprise
      value/ EBITDA, earnings per share, net asset value per share, return on equity,
      return on capital employed, of the company and its peer group for the latest full
      financial year.
   3. Weighted average return on net worth for the last 3 FYs, and return on net
      worth for any interim period for the issuer company.
   4. Disclosures as per clause (9)(K)(4) of Part A to Schedule VI, as applicable.


   ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS: This will include the
                                       following:
   1. Details of proposed /undertaken pre-issue placements from the DRHP filing
      date. Make suitable disclosure, in tabular format, including details of date of

                                    412
   allotment, name of allottees, number of equity shares, percentage of pre-Offer
   share capital of the company, price per share, total consideration. In case the
   company had made a provision for Pre-IPO placement in the DRHP and does
   not complete such a placement, a statement to this effect shall also be included.


2. Transaction of shares aggregating up to 1% or more of the paid-up equity share
   capital of the company by promoter(s) and promoter group(s) from the DRHP
   filing date. Make suitable disclosure, in tabular format, including date of
   transfer/ allotment, name of transferor, name of transferee/ allottee, nature of
   transaction, number of equity shares, percentage of pre-offer share capital of
   the company, price per shares, total consideration. Disclose if the transferees/
   allottees are connected to the issuer company or its promoters, promoter group,
   directors, KMPs or its subsidiaries, group companies and their directors or
   KMPs in any manner. If not, a negative statement shall be made to this effect.



3. Pre-issue shareholding as at the date of advertisement and post-issue
   shareholding as at allotment for promoter(s), promoter group and additional top
   10 shareholders, in the following format:



  Shareholding of Promoter / Promoter Group and Additional Top 10
  Shareholders of the Company


         Pre-Issue shareholding as at the Post-Issue shareholding as at Allotment
         date of Advertisement                  (3)
                                                At the lower end of At the upper end
                          Number                the      price   band of the price band
  S.                                  Share
                          of                    (₹[●])                 (₹[●])
  No.                                 holding
         Shareholders     Equity                Number       Share     Number Share
                                      (in
                          Shares(2              of Equity holding      of Equity holding
                                      %)(2)
                          )                     Shares       (in %)(2) Shares(2) (in
                                                (2)                              %)(2)
  1.     Promoter       1 [●]         [●]%      [●]          [●]%      [●]       [●]%
         [Name]



                                413
               Promoter        2 [●]           [●]%    [●]        [●]%      [●]         [●]%
               [Name]
               Promoter          [●]           [●]%    [●]        [●]%      [●]         [●]%
               Group(1)
      2.       [●]               [●]           [●]%    [●]        [●]%      [●]         [●]%
      3.       [●]               [●]           [●]%    [●]        [●]%      [●]         [●]%
      ……………….
      9.       [●]               [●]           [●]%    [●]        [●]%      [●]         [●]%
      10.      [●]               [●]           [●]%    [●]        [●]%      [●]         [●]%
      11.      [●]               [●]           [●]%    [●]        [●]%      [●]         [●]%


      Notes:
      (1) The Promoter Group shareholders are [●], [●] and [●].
      (2) Assuming all vested ESOPs as on date of advertisement are exercised. The
            post issue shareholding shall be updated in the prospectus based on ESOPs
            exercised until such date.
      (3) Assuming full subscription in the Issue (fresh issue and/or offer for sale). The
            post-issue shareholding details as at allotment will be based on the actual
            subscription and the final Issue price and updated in the prospectus, subject
            to finalization of the basis of allotment. Also, this table assumes there is no
            transfer of shares by these shareholders between the date of the
            advertisement and allotment (if any such transfers occur prior to the date of
            prospectus, it will be updated in the shareholding pattern in the prospectus).


                               BASIS FOR OFFER PRICE
  (Include a disclosure to the effect that the "Basis for Issue Price" on page [-] of the
    offer document has been updated with the above price band. Please refer to the
websites of the BRLMs: [-], [-] and [-] for the "Basis for Issue Price" updated with the
                                       above price band.)
 (Give QR Code - Scan of QR Code should take the reader to the webpage of the left
lead BRLM where documents relating to the issue including the “Basis for Issue Price”
                     chapter updated with the price band, are available.)
                     INDICATIVE TIMELINES FOR THE ISSUE
(including timelines for (i) submission and revision of bids during the bid/ issue period
 (except the bid/ issue closing date) and on the bid/ issue closing date, (ii) bid upload

                                         414
 timings, (iii) Expected date for commencement of trading of the equity shares on the
                                    stock exchanges)
     CONTENTS OF THE MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF THE
COMPANY AS REGARDS ITS OBJECTS: For information on the main objects of
the company, please see the section “History and Certain Corporate Matters” on page
   [-] of the offer document. The Memorandum of Association of the company is a
material document for inspection in relation to the issue. For further details, please see
the section titled “Material Contracts and Documents for Inspection” on page [-] of the
                                     offer document.
   LIABILITY OF THE MEMBERS OF THE COMPANY: Limited by shares.
    AMOUNT OF SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY AND CAPITAL
 STRUCTURE: As on the date of the offer document, the authorised share capital of
  the company [-] divided into [-] equity shares of face value of [-] each. The issued,
  subscribed and paid-up share capital of the Company is [-] divided into [-] equity
   shares of face value of [-] each. For details, please see the section titled “Capital
                Structure” beginning on page [-] of the offer document.
 NAMES OF SIGNATORIES TO THE MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION
       OF THE COMPANY AND THE NUMBER OF EQUITY SHARES
                            SUBSCRIBED BY THEM: [-]
 DISCLAIMER CLAUSE OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD
 OF INDIA: “SEBI only gives its observations on the draft offer document and this
does not constitute approval of either the issue or the specified securities stated in the
                                    offer document.”
             DISCLAIMER CLAUSE OF STOCK EXCHANGES: [-]
                          CREDIT RATING (if applicable)
                      DEBTENTURE TRUSTEE (if applicable)
                            IPO GRADING (if applicable)
                      BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS
                Name, Telephone no., E-mail, Contact person, Website
                           REGISTRAR TO THE OFFER
                Name, Telephone no., E-mail, Contact person, Website
           COMPANY SECRETARY AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER
                        Name, Telephone no., E-mail, Website
Investors may contact the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer or the Registrar
 to the Offer in case of any pre-issue or post-issue related grievances including non-

                                     415
  receipt of letters of allotment, non-credit of allotted equity shares in the respective
beneficiary account, non-receipt of refund orders or non-receipt of funds by electronic
 mode, etc. For all issue related queries and for redressal of complaints, investors may
                                also write to the BRLMs.


Availability of the offer document: [-]
Availability of the abridged prospectus: [-]
Availability of application forms: [-]
Syndicate member(s): [-]
Sub-syndicate members: [-]
Bankers to the Offer/ Escrow Collection Bank and Refund Bank/ Public Offer
Account Bank: [-]
Sponsor Banks: [-]
UPI: UPI Bidders can also bid through UPI mechanism
                                                         For [Name of issuer company]
                                                    Authorized personnel of the issuer
                                                                                 Place: [-]
                                                                                  Date: [-]
Notes:
        “Risks to Investors” needs to be adequately highlighted in the advertisement
         ensuring prominent visibility.
        Risk Factors should constitute at least 33% and information of BRLM not more
         than 10% of the advertisements.
        Font size of price band/ floor price and the risk factors should match that of
         bid/ issue programme. In addition, information on acquisition of shares should
         be given a tabular form.


            Part B - Format of issue opening advertisement for a public issue
                         [See regulation 43(3), 200(1) and 264(3)]



THIS IS A PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY.
         THIS IS NOT A PROSPECTUS ANNOUNCEMENT AND DOES NOT
  CONSTITUTE AN INVITATION OR OFFER TO ACQUIRE, PURCHASE OR
                            SUBSCRIBE TO SECURITIES.


                                      416
                           ABC Limited (Name of issuer)
For details of changes in name and the registered office of the Company, see “History
  and Certain Corporate Matters – Brief history of our Company” and “History and
 Certain Corporate Matters – Changes in the Registered Office” on page [-] of the red
             herring prospectus [-] (“RHP” or “Red Herring Prospectus”).
                                Registered Office: [-];
                                 Corporate Office: [-];
Contact Person: [-]; Tel: [-]; E-mail: [-]; Website: [-]; Corporate Identity Number: [-]
  QR Code (Scan of QR Code should take the reader to the webpage of the left lead
BRLM where documents relating to the issue such as the offer documents, price band
                           advertisement etc. are available)
                                   PROMOTERS
                                      [__XYZ__]
                                     THE ISSUE
Public issue of ___________ (nature of the specified securities) of ____ each at a price
                                       of _____
  DETAILS OF THE SELLING SHAREHOLDERS, OFFER FOR SALE AND
    WEIGHTED AVERAGE COST OF ACQUISITION, AS APPLICABLE
 (Name of selling shareholder, Type (promoter selling shareholder, investor etc.), No.
 of shares offered, Aggregate proceeds from offered shares, Weighted average cost of
                     acquisition per equity share, in tabular form)
The Company has completed pre-IPO placements in a price range of Rs. [-] to Rs.
[-] per Equity Share. For further details of pre-IPO placements by the Company
from the date of the DRHP, please refer to "Additional Information to investors"
                                    herein below.
PRICE BAND: Rs. [-] TO Rs. [-] PER EQUITY SHARE OF FACE VALUE OF
                                    Rs. [-] EACH.
  THE FLOOR PRICE IS [-] TIMES THE FACE VALUE OF THE EQUITY
 SHARES AND THE CAP PRICE IS [-] TIMES THE FACE VALUE OF THE
                                 EQUITY SHARES.
THE PRICE TO EARNING RATIO BASED ON DILUTED EPS FOR FISCAL
  [-] AT THE FLOOR PRICE IS [-] TIMES AND AT THE CAP PRICE IS [-]
                                       TIMES.
(The above assumes a price band. The above may be suitably modified for fixed price
                          or floor price, as the case maybe.)

                                    417
 BIDS CAN BE MADE FOR A MINIMUM OF [-] EQUITY SHARES AND IN
            MULTIPLES OF [-] EQUITY SHARES THEREAFTER.
           ANCHOR INVESTOR BIDDING DATE: [-] (as applicable)
                             BID/ ISSUE OPENS TODAY
                             BID/ ISSUE CLOSES ON: [-]
              Brief description of the business of the issuer company
   The issue is being made pursuant to [Regulation 6(1) or Regulation 6(2) or
Chapter IX (Initial Public Offer by Small and Medium Enterprises) or any other
  regulation as may be applicable] of the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
  Requirements) Regulations, 2018, as amended from time to time (SEBI ICDR
                                     Regulations)
THE EQUITY SHARES OF THE COMPANY WILL GET LISTED ON [NAME
 THE BOARD] OF [NAME THE STOCK EXCHANGES]. [NAME OF STOCK
    EXCHANGE] SHALL BE THE DESIGNATED STOCK EXCHANGE.
(In the case of book building issues, disclosure about the details of allocation shall be
        given in the following manner, as percentage of issue size/ net offer:
                                QIB Category: _____%
                               Retail Category: _____%
                     Non institutional investor category: _____%
                Reserved categories: _____Equity Shares or ____%)
   IN MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION, POTENTIAL INVESTORS
  MUST ONLY RELY ON THE INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE RED
HERRING PROSPECTUS AND THE TERMS OF THE OFFER, INCLUDING
  THE RISKS INVOLVED AND NOT RELY ON ANY OTHER EXTERNAL
 SOURCES OF INFORMATION ABOUT THE OFFER AVAILABLE IN ANY
                                      MANNER.
Recommendation of the Independent Directors of the Company on justification of
                                    the price band.
             RISKS TO INVESTORS: This will include the following:
          1. Risk to Investors: Summary description of key risk factors based on
              materiality.
          2. Details of suitable ratios such as price/ revenues, price/ earnings,
              enterprise value/ EBITDA, earnings per share, net asset value per share,
              return on equity, return on capital employed, of the company and its
              peer group for the latest full financial year.

                                    418
           3. Weighted average return on net worth for the last 3 FYs, and return on
               net worth for any interim period for the issuer company.
           4. Disclosures as per clause (9)(K)(4) of Part A to Schedule VI, as
               applicable.


    ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS: This will include the
                                        following:
           1. Details of proposed /undertaken pre-issue placements from the DRHP
               filing date. Make suitable disclosure, in tabular format, including details
               of date of allotment, name of allottees, number of equity shares,
               percentage of pre-Offer share capital of the company, price per share,
               total consideration. In case the company had made a provision for Pre-
               IPO placement in the DRHP and does not complete such a placement, a
               statement to this effect shall also be included.


           2. Transaction of shares aggregating up to 1% or more of the paid-up
               equity share capital of the company by promoter(s) and promoter
               group(s) from the DRHP filing date. Make suitable disclosure, in
               tabular format, including date of transfer/ allotment, name of transferor,
               name of transferee/ allottee, nature of transaction, number of equity
               shares, percentage of pre-offer share capital of the company, price per
               shares, total consideration. Disclose if the transferees/ allottees are
               connected to the issuer company or its promoters, promoter group,
               directors, KMPs or its subsidiaries, group companies and their directors
               or KMPs in any manner. If not, a negative statement shall be made to
               this effect.


                              BASIS FOR OFFER PRICE
  (Include a disclosure to the effect that the "Basis for Issue Price" on page [-] of the
    offer document has been updated with the above price band. Please refer to the
websites of the BRLMs: [-], [-] and [-] for the "Basis for Issue Price" updated with the
                                   above price band.)
 (Give QR Code - Scan of QR Code should take the reader to the webpage of the left
lead BRLM where documents relating to the issue including the “Basis for Issue Price”
                  chapter updated with the price band, are available.)

                                     419
                   INDICATIVE TIMELINES FOR THE ISSUE
 (include timelines for (i) submission and revision of bids during the bid/ issue period
 (except the bid/ issue closing date) and on the bid/ issue closing date, (ii) bid upload
 timings, (iii) Expected date for commencement of trading of the equity shares on the
                                    stock exchanges)


     CONTENTS OF THE MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF THE
COMPANY AS REGARDS ITS OBJECTS: For information on the main objects of
the company, please see the section “History and Certain Corporate Matters” on page
   [-] of the offer document. The Memorandum of Association of the company is a
material document for inspection in relation to the issue. For further details, please see
the section titled “Material Contracts and Documents for Inspection” on page [-] of the
                                     offer document.
   LIABILITY OF THE MEMBERS OF THE COMPANY: Limited by shares.
    AMOUNT OF SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY AND CAPITAL
 STRUCTURE: As on the date of the offer document, the authorised share capital of
  the company [-] divided into [-] equity shares of face value of [-] each. The issued,
  subscribed and paid-up share capital of the Company is [-] divided into [-] equity
   shares of face value of [-] each. For details, please see the section titled “Capital
                Structure” beginning on page [-] of the offer document.
 NAMES OF SIGNATORIES TO THE MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION
       OF THE COMPANY AND THE NUMBER OF EQUITY SHARES
                            SUBSCRIBED BY THEM: [-]
 DISCLAIMER CLAUSE OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD
 OF INDIA: “SEBI only gives its observations on the draft offer document and this
does not constitute approval of either the issue or the specified securities stated in the
                                    offer document.”
             DISCLAIMER CLAUSE OF STOCK EXCHANGES: [-]
                          CREDIT RATING (if applicable)
                      DEBTENTURE TRUSTEE (if applicable)
                            IPO GRADING (if applicable)
                      BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS
                Name, Telephone no., E-mail, Contact person, Website




                                     420
                           REGISTRAR TO THE OFFER
                Name, Telephone no., E-mail, Contact person, Website
           COMPANY SECRETARY AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER
                        Name, Telephone no., E-mail, Website
Investors may contact the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer or the Registrar
  to the Offer in case of any pre-issue or post-issue related grievances including non-
  receipt of letters of allotment, non-credit of allotted equity shares in the respective
beneficiary account, non-receipt of refund orders or non-receipt of funds by electronic
 mode, etc. For all issue related queries and for redressal of complaints, investors may
                                also write to the BRLMs.
Availability of the offer document: [-]
Availability of the abridged prospectus: [-]
Availability of application forms: [-]
Syndicate member(s): [-]
Sub-syndicate members: [-]
Bankers to the Offer/ Escrow Collection Bank and Refund Bank/ Public Offer
Account Bank: [-]
Sponsor Banks: [-]
UPI: UPI Bidders can also bid through UPI mechanism.


                                                         For [Name of issuer company]
                                                    Authorized personnel of the issuer
                                                                                 Place: [-]
                                                                                  Date: [-]
           Notes:
              “Risks to Investors” needs to be adequately highlighted in the
               advertisement ensuring prominent visibility.
              Risk Factors should constitute at least 33% and information of BRLM
               not more than 10% of the advertisements.
              Font size of price band/ floor price and the risk factors should match
               that of bid/ issue programme. In addition, information on acquisition of
               shares should be given a tabular form.




                                     421
         Part C - Format of issue closing advertisement for a public issue
                      [See regulation 43(3), 200(1) and 264(3)]


THIS IS A PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY.
      THIS IS NOT A PROSPECTUS ANNOUNCEMENT AND DOES NOT
  CONSTITUTE AN INVITATION OR OFFER TO ACQUIRE, PURCHASE OR
                           SUBSCRIBE TO SECURITIES.
                           ABC Limited (Name of issuer)
For details of changes in name and the registered office of the Company, see “History
  and Certain Corporate Matters – Brief history of our Company” and “History and
 Certain Corporate Matters – Changes in the Registered Office” on page [-] of the red
             herring prospectus [-] (“RHP” or “Red Herring Prospectus”).
                                 Registered Office: [-];
                                 Corporate Office: [-];
Contact Person: [-]; Tel: [-]; E-mail: [-]; Website: [-]; Corporate Identity Number: [-]
  QR Code (Scan of QR Code should take the reader to the webpage of the left lead
BRLM where documents relating to the issue such as the offer documents, price band
                           advertisement etc. are available)
                                    PROMOTERS
                                      [__XYZ__]
                                     THE ISSUE
 Public issue of _______ (nature of the specified securities) of ____ each at a price of
                                          _____
 DETAILS OF THE SELLING SHAREHOLDERS, OFFER FOR SALE AND
    WEIGHTED AVERAGE COST OF ACQUISITION, AS APPLICABLE
(Name of selling shareholder, Type (promoter selling shareholder, investor etc.), No.
of shares offered, Aggregate proceeds from offered shares, Weighted average cost of
                     acquisition per equity share, in tabular form)
The Company has completed pre-IPO placements in a price range of Rs. [-] to Rs.
[-] per Equity Share. For further details of pre-IPO placements by the Company
from the date of the DRHP, please refer to "Additional Information to investors"
                                     herein below.
PRICE BAND: Rs. [-] TO Rs. [-] PER EQUITY SHARE OF FACE VALUE OF
                                    Rs. [-] EACH.

                                    422
  THE FLOOR PRICE IS [-] TIMES THE FACE VALUE OF THE EQUITY
 SHARES AND THE CAP PRICE IS [-] TIMES THE FACE VALUE OF THE
                                 EQUITY SHARES.
THE PRICE TO EARNING RATIO BASED ON DILUTED EPS FOR FISCAL
  [-] AT THE FLOOR PRICE IS [-] TIMES AND AT THE CAP PRICE IS [-]
                                       TIMES.
(The above assumes a price band. The above maybe suitably modified for fixed price
                          or floor price, as the case maybe.)
 BIDS CAN BE MADE FOR A MINIMUM OF [-] EQUITY SHARES AND IN
            MULTIPLES OF [-] EQUITY SHARES THEREAFTER.
                           BID/ ISSUE CLOSES TODAY
              Brief description of the business of the issuer company
   The issue is being made pursuant to [Regulation 6(1) or Regulation 6(2) or
Chapter IX (Initial Public Offer by Small and Medium Enterprises) or any other
  regulation as may be applicable] of the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
    Requirements) Regulations, 2018, as amended (SEBI ICDR Regulations)
THE EQUITY SHARES OF THE COMPANY WILL GET LISTED ON [NAME
 THE BOARD] OF [NAME THE STOCK EXCHANGES]. [NAME OF STOCK
    EXCHANGE] SHALL BE THE DESIGNATED STOCK EXCHANGE.
(In the case of book building issues, disclosure about the details of allocation shall be
        given in the following manner, as percentage of issue size/ net offer:
                                QIB Category: _____%
                               Retail Category: _____%
                     Non institutional investor category: _____%
                Reserved categories: _____Equity Shares or ____%)
   IN MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION, POTENTIAL INVESTORS
  MUST ONLY RELY ON THE INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE RED
HERRING PROSPECTUS AND THE TERMS OF THE OFFER, INCLUDING
  THE RISKS INVOLVED AND NOT RELY ON ANY OTHER EXTERNAL
 SOURCES OF INFORMATION ABOUT THE OFFER AVAILABLE IN ANY
                                      MANNER.
Recommendation of the Independent Directors of the Company on justification of
                                    the price band.
RISKS TO INVESTORS: This will include the following:



                                    423
             1. Risk to Investors: Summary description of key risk factors based on
                materiality.
             2. Details of suitable ratios such as price/ revenues, price/ earnings,
                enterprise value/ EBITDA, earnings per share, net asset value per share,
                return on equity, return on capital employed, of the company and its
                peer group for the latest full financial year.
             3. Weighted average return on net worth for the last 3 FYs, and return on
                net worth for any interim period for the issuer company.
             4. Disclosures as per clause (9)(K)(4) of Part A to Schedule VI, as
                applicable.


ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS: This will include the
following:
             1. Details of proposed /undertaken pre-issue placements from the DRHP
                filing date. Make suitable disclosure, in tabular format, including details
                of date of allotment, name of allottees, number of equity shares,
                percentage of pre-Offer share capital of the company, price per share,
                total consideration. In case the company had made a provision for Pre-
                IPO placement in the DRHP and does not complete such a placement, a
                statement to this effect shall also be included.


             2. Transaction of shares aggregating up to 1% or more of the paid-up
                equity share capital of the company by promoter(s) and promoter
                group(s) from the DRHP filing date. Make suitable disclosure, in
                tabular format, including date of transfer/ allotment, name of transferor,
                name of transferee/ allottee, nature of transaction, number of equity
                shares, percentage of pre-offer share capital of the company, price per
                shares, total consideration. Disclose if the transferees/ allottees are
                connected to the issuer company or its promoters, promoter group,
                directors, KMPs or its subsidiaries, group companies and their directors
                or KMPs in any manner. If not, a negative statement shall be made to
                this effect.




                                      424
                             BASIS FOR OFFER PRICE
  (Include a disclosure to the effect that the "Basis for Issue Price" on page [-] of the
    offer document has been updated with the above price band. Please refer to the
websites of the BRLMs: [-], [-] and [-] for the "Basis for Issue Price" updated with the
                                   above price band.)
 (Give QR Code - Scan of QR Code should take the reader to the webpage of the left
lead BRLM where documents relating to the issue including the “Basis for Issue Price”
                  chapter updated with the price band, are available.)
                   INDICATIVE TIMELINES FOR THE ISSUE
 (include timelines for (i) submission and revision of bids during the bid/ issue period
 (except the bid/ issue closing date) and on the bid/ issue closing date, (ii) bid upload
 timings, (iii) Expected date for commencement of trading of the equity shares on the
                                    stock exchanges)


     CONTENTS OF THE MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF THE
COMPANY AS REGARDS ITS OBJECTS: For information on the main objects of
the company, please see the section “History and Certain Corporate Matters” on page
   [-] of the offer document. The Memorandum of Association of the company is a
material document for inspection in relation to the issue. For further details, please see
the section titled “Material Contracts and Documents for Inspection” on page [-] of the
                                     offer document.
   LIABILITY OF THE MEMBERS OF THE COMPANY: Limited by shares.
    AMOUNT OF SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY AND CAPITAL
 STRUCTURE: As on the date of the offer document, the authorised share capital of
  the company [-] divided into [-] equity shares of face value of [-] each. The issued,
  subscribed and paid-up share capital of the Company is [-] divided into [-] equity
   shares of face value of [-] each. For details, please see the section titled “Capital
                Structure” beginning on page [-] of the offer document.
 NAMES OF SIGNATORIES TO THE MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION
       OF THE COMPANY AND THE NUMBER OF EQUITY SHARES
                            SUBSCRIBED BY THEM: [-]
 DISCLAIMER CLAUSE OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD
 OF INDIA: “SEBI only gives its observations on the draft offer document and this
does not constitute approval of either the issue or the specified securities stated in the
                                    offer document.”

                                     425
                DISCLAIMER CLAUSE OF STOCK EXCHANGES: [-]
                            CREDIT RATING (if applicable)
                        DEBTENTURE TRUSTEE (if applicable)
                              IPO GRADING (if applicable)
                        BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS
                  Name, Telephone no., E-mail, Contact person, Website
                             REGISTRAR TO THE OFFER
                  Name, Telephone no., E-mail, Contact person, Website
               COMPANY SECRETARY AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER
                          Name, Telephone no., E-mail, Website
Investors may contact the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer or the Registrar
    to the Offer in case of any pre-issue or post-issue related grievances including non-
    receipt of letters of allotment, non-credit of allotted equity shares in the respective
beneficiary account, non-receipt of refund orders or non-receipt of funds by electronic
 mode, etc. For all issue related queries and for redressal of complaints, investors may
                                  also write to the BRLMs.
Availability of the offer document: [-]
Availability of the abridged prospectus: [-]
Availability of application forms: [-]
Syndicate member(s): [-]
Sub-syndicate members: [-]
Bankers to the Offer/ Escrow Collection Bank and Refund Bank/ Public Offer
Account Bank: [-]
Sponsor Banks: [-]
UPI: UPI Bidders can also bid through UPI mechanism.


                                                           For [Name of issuer company]
                                                      Authorized personnel of the issuer
                                                                                   Place: [-]
                                                                                    Date: [-]
      Notes:
    “Risks to Investors” needs to be adequately highlighted in the advertisement
     ensuring prominent visibility.
    Risk Factors should constitute at least 33% and information of BRLM not more
     than 10% of the advertisements.

                                       426
   Font size of price band/ floor price and the risk factors should match that of bid/
    issue programme. In addition, information on acquisition of shares should be given
    a tabular form.]




                                    427
SCHEDULE XI - FORMAT OF REPORT TO BE SUBMITTED BY THE MONITORING
                                                   AGENCY
                                        [See regulation 82(2) and 82(3)]


Front Page

                                        Report of the Monitoring Agency
Name of the issuer:

For quarter ended:

Name of the Monitoring Agency:

(a) Deviation from the objects:
-    Utilization different from Objects stated in the offer document but in line with change of objects
approved by shareholders' resolution;
or
-    Utilization neither in line with Objects stated in the offer document nor approved by
     shareholders' resolution
-    In case there is no deviation, the same shall be stated.


(b) Range of Deviation*:
Indicate the range of percentage deviation from the amount of issue proceeds earmarked for the objects. For
example, up to 10%, 10- 25%, 25-50%, 50-75%, 75-100%, not ascertainable etc.

* The range of deviation may be computed by taking weighted average of financial deviation of each object in the
ratio of issue proceeds allocated for it. Non-financial deviation may be indicated separately by way of notes.

Declaration:
We declare that this report is based on the format prescribed by the SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2018, We further
declare that this report provides a true and fair view of the utilization of the issue proceeds.

We declare that we do not have any direct/indirect interest in or relationship with the
issuer/promoters/directors/management and also confirm that we do not perceive any conflict of interest in such
relationship/interest while monitoring and reporting the utilization of the issue proceeds by the issuer.

Signature:
Name and designation of the Authorized Signatory:
Designation of Authorized person/Signing Authority:



Subsequent Pages:

1) Issuer Details:
       Name of the issuer :
       Names of the promoter :
       Industry/sector to which it belongs:

2) Issue Details
       Issue Period
       Type of issue (public/rights)
       Type of specified securities :
       IPO Grading, if any
       Issue size (in ` crore):




                                                       428
3) Details of the arrangement made to ensure the monitoring of issue proceeds:
713
   [(Give item by item description for all the objects, as well as for the sub-heads (if any) given under objects,
stated in the offer document separately in following format)]

                                                            714
 Particulars                                  Reply            [Source of information    Comments       Comments
                                                            / certifications             of the         the
                                                            considered by                Monitoring     Board of
                                                            Monitoring Agency for        Agency         Directors
                                                            preparation of report]

 Whether all utilization is as per the        Yes/ No
 disclosures in the Offer Document?
 Whether shareholder approval has been        Yes/ No
 obtained in case of material deviations#
 from expenditures disclosed in the Offer
 Document?
 Whether the means of finance for the         Yes/ No
 disclosed objects of the issue has
 changed?
 Is there any major deviation observed        Yes/ No
 over the earlier monitoring agency
 reports?
 Whether all Government/statutory             Yes/ No
 approvals related to the object(s) have
 been obtained?
 Whether all arrangements pertaining to       Yes/ No
 technical assistance/collaboration are in
 operation?
 Are there any favorable events               Yes/ No
 improving the viability of these
 object(s)?
 Are there any unfavorable events             Yes/ No
 affecting the viability of the object(s)?
 Is there any other relevant information      Yes/ No
 that may materially affect the decision
 making of the investors?


      *Where material deviation may be defined to mean:
      (a) Deviation in the objects or purposes for which the funds have been raised
      (b) Deviation in the amount of funds actually utilized by more than 10% of the amount projected
      in the offer documents.




713
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “(Give Item by Item Description for all
the Objects Stated in Offer Document separately in following format)”.
714
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                           429
4) Details of object(s)s to be monitored:
(i) Cost of object(s)-
715
    [(Give item by item description for all the objects, as well as for the sub-heads (if any) given under objects,
stated in the offer document separately in following format)]

    Sr. Item 716[Source of Original cost         Revised   Comments of   Comments of the Board of Directors
    No. Head information (as per the              Cost         the     Reason of Proposed      Particulars of
             /                Offer                         Monitoring    Cost    financing         firm
             certifications Document)                        Agency     revision    option     arrangements
             considered                                                                            made
             by
             Monitoring
             Agency for
             preparation
             of report]




(ii) Progress in the object(s) -
(Give item by item description for all the Objects stated in the Offer Document in the following format)
              717
                  [Source of                  Amount utilized                               Comments of the Board
              information Amount as                                           Comments           of Directors
        Item /               proposed      As at            At the     Total     of the
   Sr. Head$ certifications in the Offer beginning During end unutilized Monitoring Reasons Proposed
  No.         considered Document of the             the    of the amount       Agency for idle        course of
              by                          quarter quarter quarter                            funds      action
              Monitoring
              Agency for
              preparation
              of report]



$
 Provide following details under Item Head:
(a) Name of the object(s):
(b) Brief description of the object(s):
(c) Location of the object(s) (if applicable):

(iii) Deployment of unutilised IPO proceeds:

                   Type of
                 instrument                                                            Return on  Market Value as
      Sr. No.     and name        Amount          Maturity date       Earning       Investment (%) at the end of
                of the entity     invested                                                           quarter*
                invested in




715
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “(Give Item by Item Description for all
the Objects Stated in Offer Document separately in following format)”.
716
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.
717
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                           430
* Where the market value is not feasible, provide NAV/NRV/Book Value of the same

(iv) Delay in implementation of the object(s)

                              Completion Date                                  Comments of the Board of Directors
      Object(s)                                              Delay (no. of
                                                             days/ months)
                    As per the Offer                                                                Proposed course of
                      Document               Actual*                           Reason of delay            action




* In case of continuing object(s), please specify latest/revised estimate of the completion date.
718
  [5) Details of utilization of proceeds stated as General Corporate Purpose (GCP) amount in the offer
document:]




718
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                          431
                  SCHEDULE XII – MANDATORY COLLECTION CENTRES
                       [See regulation 23(6), 69(6), 121(6), 184(6) and 244(6)]




(1)    The issuer shall designate collection centre(s) at the four metropolitan centres situated at
       Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai.


(2)    All such places where recognised stock exchanges are located.


(3)    In addition, all designated branches of the self-certified syndicate banks, as displayed on the
       websites of such banks and of the Board, shall be deemed to be mandatory collection
       centres.


(4)    The issuer may appoint other collection centres as it may deem fit.


                        SCHEDULE XIII - BOOK BUILDING PROCESS
      [See regulation 28(2), 30(1)(c), 32(2), 126(2), 128(1)(d), 129(3), 188(2), 190(1)(b), 250(2),
                                         252(1)(c) and 291(4)]


  719[For the purpose of public issue by an issuer to be listed /listed on SME exchange made in


 accordance with Chapter IX of these regulations, the words “retail individual investors” shall
        be read as words “individual investors who applies for minimum application size.]


                                   Part A – Book building process


An issuer proposing to issue specified securities through the book building process shall comply
with the requirements of this Schedule.


(1)    Lead Manager(s)
       (a)   The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant banker(s) as lead manager(s) and their
             name(s) shall be disclosed in the draft offer document and the offer document(s).




719
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.



                                                  432
      (b)     In case there is more than one lead manager(s), the rights, obligations and
              responsibilities of each shall be delineated in the inter-se allocation of responsibility
              as specified in Schedule I.
      (c)     Co-ordination of various activities may be allocated to more than one lead manager.


(2)   Syndicate Member(s)
      The issuer may appoint syndicate member(s).


(3)   Underwriting
      (a)     The lead manager(s) shall compulsorily underwrite the issue and the syndicate
              member(s) shall sub-underwrite with the lead manager(s).
      (b)     The lead manager(s) / syndicate member(s) shall enter into underwriting/ sub
              underwriting agreement on a date prior to filing of the prospectus 720[or the red
              herring prospectus, as the case may be].
      (c)     The details of the final underwriting arrangement indicating actual numbers of shares
              underwritten shall be disclosed and printed in the prospectus 721[or the red herring
              prospectus, as the case may be] before it is filed with the Registrar of Companies.
      (d)     In case of an under-subscription in an issue, the shortfall shall be made good by the
              lead manager(s) and the same shall be incorporated in the inter-se allocation of
              responsibility as specified in Schedule I.


(4)   Agreement with the stock exchanges
      (a)     The issuer shall enter into an agreement with one or more stock exchange(s) which
              have the facility of book building through the electronic bidding system.
      (b)     The agreement shall specify inter-alia, the rights, duties, responsibilities and
              obligations of the issuer and the stock exchange(s) inter se.
      (c)         The agreement may also provide for a dispute resolution mechanism between the
              issuer and the stock exchange.


(5)         Appointment of stock brokers as bidding/collection centres




720
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.
721
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.

                                                      433
      (a)      The lead manager(s)/syndicate member(s) shall appoint stock brokers who are
              members of the stock exchange(s) and registered with the Board, for the purpose of
              accepting bids and placing orders with the issuer and ensure that the stock brokers so
              appointed are financially capable of honouring their commitments arising out of
              defaults of their clients/investors, if any;
              Provided that in case of Application Supported by Blocked Amount, the self certified
              syndicate banks, registrar and share transfer agents, depository participants and stock
              brokers shall also be authorised to accept and upload the requisite details in the
              electronic bidding system of the stock exchange(s).
      (b)       The self certified syndicate banks, registrar and share transfer agents, depository
              participants and stock brokers accepting applications and application monies shall be
              deemed as ‘bidding/collection centres’.
      (c)      The issuer shall pay to the SEBI registered intermediaries involved in the above
              activities a reasonable commission/fee for the services rendered by them. These
              intermediaries shall not levy service fee on their clients/investors in lieu of their
              services.
      (d)      The stock exchanges shall ensure that no stock broker levies a service fee on their
              clients/investors in lieu of their services.


(6)         Price not to be disclosed in the draft red herring prospectus
      The draft red herring prospectus shall contain the total issue size which may be expressed
      either in terms of the total amount to be raised or the total number of specified securities to
      be issued. and shall not contain the price of the specified securities.
      In case the offer has an offer for sale and/or a fresh issue, each component of the issue may
      be expressed in either value terms or number of specified securities.


(7)         Floor price and price band
      Subject to applicable provisions of these regulations and the provisions of this clause, the
      issuer may mention the floor price or price band in the red herring prospectus.
      (a)           where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the price band or floor price in
              the red-herring prospectus, the following shall also be disclosed in the red-herring
              prospectus:
              (i)         a statement that the floor price or price band, as the case may be, shall be
                      disclosed at least two working days (in case of an initial public offer) and at



                                                    434
                        least one working day (in case of a further public offer) before the opening of
                        the issue;
              (ii)             a statement that the investors may be guided by the secondary market prices
                        (in case of a further public offer);
              (iii)            names and editions of the newspapers where the announcement of the floor
                        price or price band would be made;
              (iv)             website addresses where the announcement is available.
      (b)             where the issuer decides to opts for a price band instead of a floor price, the issuer
              shall also ensure compliance with the following conditions:
              (i)              The cap of the price band should not be higher by more than 20 per cent. of
                        the floor of the band; i.e. cap of the price band shall be less than or equal to 120
                        per cent. of the floor of the price band;
                        722
                              [Provided that the cap of the price band shall be at least one hundred and five
                        per cent of the floor price.]
              (ii)             The price band can be revised during the bidding period, provided the
                        maximum revision on either side shall not exceed 20 per cent. i.e. floor of price
                        band can move up or down to the extent of 20 per cent. of floor of the price
                        band disclosed in the red herring prospectus and the cap of the revised price
                        band will be fixed in accordance with clause (i) above;
              (iii)            Any revision in the price band shall be widely disseminated by informing
                        the stock exchanges, by issuing public notice and also indicating the change on
                        the relevant website and the terminals of the syndicate member(s).
              (iv)             In case the price band is revised, the bidding period will be extended as per
                        the provisions of these regulations.
              (v)              The manner in which the shortfall, if any, in the project financing will be
                        met, arising on account of lowering of the price band shall be disclosed in the
                        red herring prospectus or the public notice and that the allotment shall not be
                        made unless the financing is tied up.


(8)   The manner and contents of the bid-cum-application form and revision form (accompanied
      with abridged prospectus) shall be as specified by the Board.


(9)         Extension of issue period

722
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.

                                                         435
                       (i) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding
                          (issue) period disclosed in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period
                          of three working days, subject to the total bidding (issue) period not
                          exceeding ten working days.


                       (ii) in case of force majeure, banking strike or similar723[unforeseen]
                          circumstances, the issuer may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend
                          the bidding/issue period for a minimum period of 724[one working day],
                          subject to the total bidding/issue period not exceeding ten working days.




(10)        Anchor Investors
       a)    An anchor investor shall make an application of a value of at least ten crore rupees in a
             public issue on the main board made through the book building process or an
             application for a value of at least two crore rupees in case of a public issue on the SME
             exchange made in accordance with Chapter IX of these regulations.
       b)    Up to sixty per cent. of the portion available for allocation to qualified institutional buyers
             shall be available for allocation/allotment (“anchor investor portion”) to the anchor
             investor(s).
       c)    Allocation to the anchor investors shall be on a discretionary basis, subject to the
             following:
             (I) In case of public issue on the main board, through the book building process:
                 (i)      maximum of 2 such investors shall be permitted for allocation up to ten crore
                          rupees
                 (ii)     minimum of 2 and maximum of 15 such investors shall be permitted for
                          allocation above ten crore rupees and up to two fifty crore rupees, subject to
                          minimum allotment of five crore rupees per such investor;
                 (i)      in case of allocation above two fifty crore rupees; a minimum of 5 such
                          investors and a maximum of 15 such investors for allocation up to two fifty
                          crore rupees and an additional 10 such investors for every additional two fifty



723
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
724
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024 for the words “three working days”

                                                     436
                crore rupees or part thereof, shall be permitted, subject to a minimum
                allotment of five crore rupees per such investor.
     (II) In case of public issue on the SME exchange, through the book building process:
         (i)    maximum of 2 such investors shall be permitted for allocation up to two crore
                rupees
         (ii)   minimum of 2 and maximum of 15 such investors shall be permitted for
                allocation above two crore rupees and up to twenty five crore rupees, subject
                to minimum allotment of one crore rupees per such investor;
         (iii) in case of allocation above twenty five crore rupees; a minimum of 5 such
                investors and a maximum of 15 such investors for allocation up to twenty
                five crore rupees and an additional 10 such investors for every additional
                twenty five crore rupees or part thereof, shall be permitted, subject to a
                minimum allotment of one crore rupees per such investor.
d)   One-third of the anchor investor portion shall be reserved for domestic mutual funds.
e)   The bidding for anchor investors shall open one day before the issue opening date.
f)     The anchor investors shall pay on application the same margin which is payable by
     other categories of investors and the balance, if any, shall be paid within two days of
     the date of closure of the issue.
g)   The allocation to anchor investors shall be completed on the day of the bidding by the
     anchor investors.
h)   If the price fixed as a result of book building is higher than the price at which the
     allocation is made to the anchor investors, the anchor investors shall pay the additional
     amount. However, if the price fixed as a result of book building is lower than the price
     at which the allocation is made to the anchor investors, the excess amount shall not be
     refunded to the anchor investors and the anchor investor shall be allotted the securities
     at the same price at which the allocation was made to it.
i)   The number of shares allocated to the anchor investors and the price at which the
     allocation is made, shall be made available to the stock exchange(s) by the lead
     manager(s) for dissemination on the website of the stock exchange(s) before opening
     of the issue.




                                           437
              725
       j)           [ There shall be a lock-in of 90 days on fifty per cent of the shares allotted to the
             anchor investors from the date of allotment, and a lock-in of 30 days on the remaining
             fifty per cent of the shares allotted to the anchor investors from the date of allotment.]
       k)    Neither the (i) lead manager(s) or any associate of the lead managers (other than
             mutual funds sponsored by entities which are associate of the lead managers or
             insurance companies promoted by entities which are associate of the lead managers or
             Alternate Investment Funds (AIFs) sponsored by the entities which are associate of the
             lead manager or [a foreign portfolio investor other than individuals, corporate bodies
             and family offices]726 727[***] which are associate of the lead manager 728[or pension
             funds sponsored by entities which are associate of the lead manager]) nor (ii) any
             person related to the promoter/promoter group/ shall apply under the Anchor Investors
             category.


             Explanation: For the purpose of clause (k) above, a qualified institutional buyer who
             has any of the following rights shall be deemed to be a person related to the promoters
             or promoter group of the issuer:
             (I) rights under a shareholders’ agreement or voting agreement entered into with
             promoters or promoter group of the issuer;
             (II) veto rights; or
             (III) right to appoint any nominee director on the board of the issuer.


             Further, for the purposes of this regulation, an anchor investor shall be deemed to be
             an “associate of the lead manager” if: (i) either of them controls, directly or indirectly
             through its subsidiary or holding company, not less than fifteen per cent. of the voting
             rights in the other; or (ii) either of them, directly or indirectly, by itself or in


725
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Prior to the substitution, the
sub-clause read as follows:
          “There shall be a lock-in of 30 days on the shares allotted to the anchor investors from the date of
          allotment.”
Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public
issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been
made effective from 1.7.2022.
726
    Substituted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2019
w.e.f.23.09.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “FPIs other than Category III”.
727
    Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.
728
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023.



                                                        438
           combination with other persons, exercises control over the other; or (iii) there is a
           common director, excluding nominee director, amongst the anchor investor and the
           lead manager.


     l)    Applications made by a qualified institutional buyer under the anchor investor
           category and under the non anchor Investor category shall not be considered as
           multiple applications.


(11) Margin money
     (a)   The entire application money shall be payable as margin money by all the applicants.
     (b)   Payment accompanied with any revision of bid, shall be adjusted against the payment
           made at the time of the original bid or the previously revised bid.


(12) Bidding process
     (a)   The bidding process shall only be through an electronically linked transparent bidding
           facility provided by the stock exchange (s).
     (b)   The lead manager(s) shall ensure the availability of adequate infrastructure with the
           syndicate member(s) for data entry of the bids in a timely manner.
     (c)   At each of the bidding centres, at least one electronically linked computer terminal shall
           be available for the purpose of bidding.
     (d)   During the period the issue is open to the public for bidding, the applicants may
           approach the stock brokers of the stock exchange/s through which the securities are
           offered under on-line system, self-certified syndicate bank(s), registrar and share
           transfer agents or depository participants, as the case may be, to place their bids.
     (e)   Every stock broker, self-certified syndicate bank, registrar and share transfer agent
           and depository participant shall accept applications supported by blocked amount.
     (f)   The qualified institutional buyers shall place their bids only through the stock
           broker(s) who shall have the right to vet the bids;
     (g)   At the end of each day of the bidding period, the demand, shall be shown graphically
           on the bidding terminals of the syndicate member(s) and websites of the stock
           exchanges for information of the public (details in relation to allocation made to
           anchor investors shall also be disclosed).
     (h)   The retail individual investors may either withdraw or revise their bids until the
           closure of the issue.



                                                439
      (i)    The qualified institutional buyers and the non-institutional investors shall not be
             permitted to withdraw or lower the size of their bids at any stage of the issue.
      (m)     The issuer may decide to close the bidding by the qualified institutional buyers one
             day prior to the closure of the issue, subject to the following conditions:
             (i) the bidding period shall be minimum of three days for all categories of applicants;
             (ii) necessary disclosures are made in the red herring prospectus regarding the issuer’s
                 intent to close the bidding by the qualified institutional buyers one day prior to the
                 closure of the issue.
      (n)     The names of the qualified institutional buyers making the bids shall not be made
             public.
      (o)    The retail individual investors may bid at the "cut off" price instead of a specific bid
             price.
      (p)    The stock exchanges shall continue to display on their website, the book building data
             in a uniform format, inter alia, giving category-wise details of the bids received, for a
             period of at least three days after the closure of the issue. Such display shall be as per
             the format specified in Part B of this Schedule.


(13) Determination of price
        (a) The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), determine the final issue
             price based on the bids received, and on determination of the same, the number of
             specified securities to be offered or issue size shall be determined.
        (b) Once the final issue price is determined, all bidders whose bids have been at and
             above the final price shall be considered for allotment of specified securities.


(14) Filing of prospectus with the Registrar of Companies
      A copy of the prospectus, which shall include the price and the number of specified
      securities, shall be filed by the issuer with the Registrar of Companies.


(15) Manner of allotment/ allocation
        (a) The issuer shall make allotments only if the minimum subscription has been received.
        (b) The allotment/allocation to qualified institutional buyers 729[***], other than the
             anchor investors, shall be made on a proportionate basis as illustrated in this Schedule.


729
    The words and symbol “and non-institutional investors” omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size

                                                     440
             The allotment to retail individual investors 730[, non-institutional investors] and
             allotment to employees shall be made in accordance with applicable provisions of
             these regulations.
        (c) In case of under-subscription in any category, the undersubscribed portion in that
             category shall be allocated to such bidders as described in the red herring prospectus;
             Provided that the unsubscribed portion in the qualified institutional buyer category
             shall not be available for subscription to other categories in the case of issues made
             under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6 of these regulations.


(16) Maintenance of records
       (a)   The final book of the demand showing the result of the allocation process shall be
             maintained by the lead manager and the registrar to the issue.
       (b)   The lead manager(s) and other intermediaries associated in the book building process
             shall maintain records of the book building prices.
       (c)   The Board shall have the right to inspect the records, books and documents relating to
             the book building process and such person shall extend full co-operation.


(17) Applicability to Fast Track Issues
        Unless the context otherwise requires, in relation to the fast track issues, all references in
        this Schedule to ‘draft prospectus’ shall be deemed to have been made to the ‘red herring
        prospectus’.


                      Part B - Format of bid data displayed on stock exchange


                                <NAME OF THE ISSUER> - BID DETAILS


The total demand shall be aggregated by all the stock exchanges on an hourly basis and be
displayed on their websites


(1)   Details of Allocation to the Anchor Investors



equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective
from 1.7.2022.
730
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or
after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective from 1.7.2022.

                                                      441
        S.        Name of the      No. of securities                    Details of Allocation
       No. Anchor Investor available under
                                      the Anchor
                                   Investor portion
                                                            No. of      No. of securities allocated as a
                                                           securities percentage of securities under
                                                                         the Anchor Investor portion
               AI 1
               AI 2
               Total (a) + (b)


(2)   Details of Allocation to Investors other than Anchor Investors
        S.               Category of Investor                No. of           No. of       No. of times
        No.                                                securities     securities bid   of the total
                                                            offered/      for/allocated meant for the
                                                            reserved                        category
       1.       QIBs
            (a) Foreign Portfolio Investors
                Domestic Financial Institutions
                (Banks/FIs/Insurance Companies,
                etc.)
            (b) Mutual Funds
            (c) Others
       2.       Non Institutional Investors
            (a) Corporates
            (b) Individuals (other than RIIs)
            (c) Others
       3.       Retail Individual Investors (RIIs)
            (a) Cut off
            (b) Price bids
       4.       Reservation categories, if any
            (a) Cut off
            (b) Price bids




                                                     442
Notes:
(1)   The graph should have the title “Graphical display of bids received”.
(2)   A statement to the effect that the position indicated above is only the bids position and does
      not necessarily convey the subscription to the issue.
(3)   A statement as to how the multiple bids are accounted for in the data and graph.
(4)   The time of each updation.
(5)   Additional comments, if any.
Part C - Illustration regarding allotment to qualified institutional buyers other than anchor
                                              investors


(1)   Issue Details


Sr.             Particulars                                                         Issue details
No.
 1       Issue size                                                           200      crore   equity
                                                                              shares
 2       Portion available to QIBs*                                           100      crore   equity
                                                                              shares
 3       Anchor Investor Portion                                              60 crore equity shares
         of which
      a. Reservation for Mutual Funds (1/3rd)                                 20 crore equity shares
      b. Balance for all QIBs including Mutual Funds                          40 crore equity shares
 4       Portion available to QIBs* other than Anchor Investors [(2) – 40 crore equity shares
         (3)]
         of which
      a. Reservation to Mutual Funds (5 per cent.)                            2 crore equity shares
      b. Balance for all QIBs including Mutual Funds                          38 crore equity shares
 5       No. of QIB applicants                                                10
 6       No. of shares applied for                                            500      crore   equity
                                                                              shares
* Where 50 per cent. of the issue size is required to be allotted to QIBs.


(2)   Details of QIB Bids




                                                 443
      S. No.            Type of QIB bidders               No. of equity shares bid for (in crores)
        1       A1                                                                              50
        2       A2                                                                              20
        3       A3                                                                             130
        4       A4                                                                              50
        5       A5                                                                              50
        6       MF1                                                                             40
        7       MF2                                                                             40
        8       MF3                                                                             80
        9       MF4                                                                             20
        10      MF5                                                                             20
                TOTAL                                                                          500
A1-A5 : QIB bidders other than Mutual Funds
MF1-MF5: QIB bidders which are Mutual Funds


(3)    Details of Allotment to QIB Bidders/Applicants
                                                                 (No. of equity shares in crores)
      Type of        Equity         Allocation of 2          Allocation of           Aggregate
       QIB        shares bid      crore equity shares       balance 38 crore        allocation to
      bidders         for          to Mutual Funds          equity shares to          Mutual
                                   proportionately               QIBs                  Funds
                                     (See Note 2)           proportionately
                                                              (See Note 4)
       A1                    50                       0                   3.82               3.82
       A2                    20                       0                   1.53               1.53
       A3                   130                       0                   9.92               9.92
       A4                    50                       0                   3.82               3.82
       A5                    50                       0                   3.82               3.82
       MF1                   40                     0.4                   3.02               3.42
       MF2                   40                     0.4                   3.02               3.42
       MF3                   80                     0.8                   6.04               6.84
       MF4                   20                     0.2                   1.51               1.71
       MF5                   20                     0.2                   1.51               1.71
                            500                     2.0                  38.00              40.00


                                              444
Notes:
(1)    The illustration presumes compliance with the provisions of these regulations pertaining to
       minimum allotment.
(2)    Out of 40 crore securities allocated to QIBs, 2 crore equity shares (i.e. 5 per cent.) shall be
       allocated on a proportionate basis among 5 mutual fund applicants who applied for 200
       crore equity shares in the QIB category.
(3)    The balance 38 crore equity shares, i.e. 40 – 2 available for the mutual funds, shall be
       allocated on a proportionate basis among 10 QIB applicants who applied for 500 crore
       equity shares (including 5 mutual fund applicants who applied for 200 crore equity shares).
(4)    The figures at column no. IV are arrived as under:
       a.     For QIBs other than mutual funds (A1 to A5) = No. of equity shares bid for (i.e.
              column no. II) X 38 / 498
       b.     For mutual funds (MF1 to MF5) = {(No. of equity shares bid for (i.e. column no. II)
              less no. of equity shares allotted (i.e. column no. III )} X 38 / 498
       c.     The numerator and denominator for arriving at allocation of 38 crore equity shares to
              the 10 QIBs are reduced by 2 crore equity shares, which have already been allotted to
              the mutual funds at column. no. III.


                              Part D - Alternate method of book building


In the case of a further public offering, the issuer may opt for an alternate method of book
building, subject to the following:


(a) The issuer shall follow the procedure laid down in Part A of this Schedule except clause (13)
      and 731[clause 15 (b)] thereof.
(b) The issuer may mention the floor price in the red herring prospectus or announce the floor
      price at least one working day before opening of the issue in all newspapers in which the pre-
      issue advertisement was released.
(c) Qualified institutional buyers shall bid only at a price above the floor price.
(d) The bidder who bids at the highest price shall be allotted the number of securities it has bid
      for, the bidder who has bid at the second highest price shall be allotted the number of
      securities that it has bid for and so on, until all the specified securities on offer are allotted.
(e) Allotment shall be on a price priority basis for the qualified institutional buyers.

731
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “clause (15) (c)”.

                                                     445
(f) Allotment to the retail individual investors, non-institutional investors and reserved categories
      of the issuer shall be made on a proportionate basis as illustrated in this Schedule.
(g) Where, however, the number of specified securities bid for at a price are more than the
      available quantity, the allotment shall be done on a proportionate basis.
(h) Retail individual investors and non-institutional investors shall be allotted specified securities
      at the floor price.
(i) Employees may be allotted specified securities at a price lower than the floor price;
      Provided that the difference between the floor price and the price at which the specified
      securities are offered to employees shall not be more than ten per cent. of the floor price.
(j) The issuer may decide and disclose in the offer document:
      (i) to place a cap either in terms of number of specified securities or percentage of issued
         capital of the issuer that may be allotted to a single bidder;
      (ii) whether a bidder shall be allowed to revise the bid upwards or downwards in terms of
         price and/or quantity;
      (iii) whether a bidder shall be allowed only a single or multiple bids.


         SCHEDULE XIV - ILLUSTRATION EXPLAINING THE PROCEDURE OF
                                               ALLOTMENT
         [See regulation 47(3), 49(5), 145(5), 192(1)(a), 204(4), 267(3), 143(3) and 268(5)]


 Part A - Illustration explaining the procedure of allotment 732[for retail individual investors]


  733[For the purpose of public issue by an issuer to be listed /listed on SME exchange made in


 accordance with Chapter IX of these regulations, the words “retail individual investors” shall
        be read as words “individual investors who applies for minimum application size.]



Example A.
(1) Total number of specified securities on offer@ ₹ 600 per share: 1 crore specified securities.




732
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or
after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective from 1.7.2022.
733
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.



                                                      446
(2) Specified securities on offer for retail individual investors’ category: 35 lakh specified
securities.


(3) The issue is over-all subscribed by 2.5 times, whereas the retail individual investors’ category
is oversubscribed 4 times.


(4) The issuer has fixed the minimum application/bid size as 20 specified securities (falling within
the range of ten thousand to fifteen thousand rupees) and in multiples thereof.


(5) A total of one lakh retail individual investors have applied in the issue, in varying number of
bid lots i.e. between 1 – 16 bid lots, based on the maximum application size of up to two lakh
rupees.


(6) Out of the one lakh investors, there are five retail individual investors A, B, C, D and E who
have applied as follows: A has applied for 320 specified securities. B has applied for 220
specified securities. C has applied for 120 specified securities. D has applied for 60 specified
securities and E has applied for 20 specified securities.


(7) As the allotment to a retail individual investor cannot be less than the minimum bid lot, subject
to availability of shares, the remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate
basis.


The actual entitlement shall be as follows:


   Sr.        Name of    Total Number of      Total number of specified securities eligible to be
   No.        Investor        specified                              allotted
                             securities
                             applied for
    1            A              320           20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot) + 38
                                              specified securities [{35,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)} /
                                              {140,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)}] * 300 (i.e. 320-20)
    2            B              220           20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot) + 25
                                              specified securities [{35,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20) /
                                              {140,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)}] * 200 (i.e. 220-20)



                                                 447
    3          C               120           20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot) + 13
                                             specified securities [{35,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)} /
                                             {(140,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)}] * 100 (i.e. 120-20)
    4          D               60            20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot) + 5
                                             specified securities [{(35,00,000 - 1,00,000 * 20)} /
                                             {(140,00,000 - (1,00,000 * 20)}] * 40 (i.e. 60-20)
    5          E               20            20 specified securities (i.e. the minimum bid lot)


Example B.
(1) Total number of specified securities on offer @ ` 600 per share: 1 crore specified securities.


(2) Specified securities on offer for retail individual investors’ category: 35 lakh specified
securities.


(3) The issue is overall subscribed by 7 times, whereas the retail individual investors’ category is
over-subscribed 9.37 times.


(4) The issuer has decided the minimum application/bid size as 20 specified securities (falling
within the range of ten thousand to fifteen thousand rupees) and in multiples thereof.


(5) A total of two lakh retail individual investors have applied in the issue, in varying number of
bid lots i.e. between 1-16 bid lots, based on the maximum application size of up to two lakh
rupees.


(6) As per the allotment procedure, the allotment to retail individual investors shall not be less
than the minimum bid lot, subject to availability of shares.


(7) Since the total number of shares on offer to the retail individual investors is 35,00,000 and the
minimum bid lot is 20 shares, the maximum number of investors who can be allotted this
minimum bid lot should be 1,75,000. In other words, 1,75,000 retail applicants shall get the
minimum bid lot and the remaining 25,000 retail applicants will not get any allotment.


The details of the allotment shall be as follows:




                                                    448
    No. of    No. of        No. of retail     Total no. of     No. of investors who shall receive
     lots    shares at       investors       shares applied minimum bid-lot (to be selected by a
             each lot       applying at      for at each lot                 lottery)
                              each lot
      A          B               C             D= (B*C)                         E
1                      20         10,000           2,00,000       8,750 =(1,75,000/2,00,000)*10,000
2                      40         10,000           4,00,000                                  8,750
3                      60         10,000           6,00,000                                  8,750
4                      80         10,000           8,00,000                                  8,750
5                    100          20,000          20,00,000                                 17,500
6                    120          20,000          24,00,000                                 17,500
7                    140          15,000          21,00,000                                 13,125
8                    160          20,000          32,00,000                                 17,500
9                    180          10,000          18,00,000                                  8,750
10                   200          15,000          30,00,000                                 13,125
11                   220          10,000          22,00,000                                  8,750
12                   240          10,000          24,00,000                                  8,750
13                   260          10,000          26,00,000                                  8,750
14                   280             5,000        14,00,000                                  4,375
15                   300          15,000          45,00,000                                 13,125
16                   320          10,000          32,00,000                                  8,750
Total                           2,00,000        328,00,000                                1,75,000




Note: For IDRs, the minimum application size shall be twenty thousand rupees.
Part B - Illustration explaining minimum application size


For inviting applications in multiples of the minimum value as referred to in sub-regulation (2) of
regulation 49, the procedure is clarified by following example:


Assuming an issue is being made at a price of ` 900 per equity share. In this case, the issuer in
consultation with the lead merchant banker can determine the minimum application lot within the




                                                  449
range of 12 – 16 equity shares (in value terms between Rs.10,000- Rs.15,000), as explained
hereunder:


           Options                                I             II           III           IV            V
                                                  12            13           14            15            16
      Lot Size @ `.900/- per share                shares        shares       shares        shares        shares
      Application / Bid amount for 1 lots              10800      11700        12600         13500        14400
      Application / Bid amount for 2 lots              21600      23400        25200         27000        28800
      Application / Bid amount for 4 lots              43200      46800        50400         54000        57600
      Application / Bid amount for 8 lots              86400      93600      100800        108000        115200
      Application / Bid amount for 16 lots            172800    187200              --              --            --
      Application / Bid amount for 18 lots            194400           --           --              --            --


The options given above are only illustrative and not exhaustive.


Where the issuer in consultation with the lead merchant banker decides to fix the minimum
application / bid size as 14 (Option III), necessary disclosures to the effect that the applicant can
make an application for 14 shares and in multiples thereof shall be made in the offer document.]



      734[Part A1 - Illustration explaining the procedure of allotment for non-institutional

                                                 investors


       Example A.
      (1) Total number of specified securities on offer @₹ 600 per share: 1 crore specified
      securities.


      (2) Specified securities on offer for non-institutional investors’ category: 15 lakhs specified
      securities.


      (3) Out of the total non-institutional investors’ category,



734
    Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f.
1.4.2022 for issues opening on or after 1.4.2022. Vide SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, for public issues of a size equal to or more than ₹10,000 crore and opening on or
after April 1, 2022, the amendment has been made effective from 1.7.2022.

                                                       450
       (a)   Reserved for applications above two lakhs rupees and up to ten lakhs rupees -i.e.,
             five lakhs of specified securities
       (b)   Balance for applications above ten lakhs rupees - ten lakhs specified securities
(4) The issue is over-all subscribed by 2.5 times, whereas the non-institutional investors’
category mentioned in 3 (a) above is oversubscribed 4 times and 3(b) is oversubscribed 50
times.


(5) The issuer has fixed the minimum lot size as 20 specified securities (falling within the
range of ten thousand to fifteen thousand rupees) and in multiples thereof.


(6) Therefore, the minimum application size for non-institutional investors’ is 340 specified
securities (i.e. the application value should be more than two lakh rupees and in multiples of
one lot (i.e. 20 specified securities) thereof.


(7) A total of five hundred investors have applied in the issue under 3(a) category, in
varying number of application size i.e. between 17 to 83 lots (340 to 1660 specified
securities), based on the maximum application size of up to ten lakh rupees.


(8) Out of the five hundred investors, there are five non-institutional investors A, B, C, D
and E who have applied as follows: A has applied for 340 specified securities. B has applied
for 500 specified securities. C has applied for 1,000 specified securities. D has applied for
1,400 specified securities and E has applied for 1,660 specified securities.


(9) As the allotment to a non-institutional investor cannot be less than the minimum
application size, subject to availability of shares, the remaining available shares, if any, shall
be allotted on a proportionate basis.


The actual entitlement shall be as follows:


 Sr.         Name of    Total Number of Total number of specified securities eligible to be
 No.         Investor   specified       allotted
                        securities
                        applied for

 1           A          340                   340 specified securities        (i.e.   the   minimum
                                              applications size)




                                              451
2        B            500                  340      specified securities (i.e. the minimum
                                           applications size) + 29 specified securities [{5,00,000
                                           - (500 * 340)} / {20,00,000 - (500 * 340)}] * 160 (i.e.
                                           500-340)
3        C            1,000                340 specified securities (i.e. the minimum lot of Rs 2
                                           Lakhs) + 119 specified securities [{5,00,000 - (500 *
                                           340)} / {20,00,000 - (500* 340)}] * 660 (i.e. 1,000-
                                           340)
4        D            1,400                340 specified securities (i.e. the minimum lot of Rs 2
                                           Lakhs) + 191 specified securities [{5,00,000 - (500 *
                                           340)} / {20,00,000 - (500 * 340)}] * 1,060 (i.e.
                                           1,400-340)
5        E            1,660                340 specified securities (i.e. the minimum lot of Rs 2
                                           Lakhs) + 238 specified securities[{5,00,000 - (500 *
                                           340)} / {20,00,000 - (500 * 340)}] * 1,320 (i.e.
                                           1,660-340)


NOTE: For category 3(b), calculation methodology shall be similar to above.
Example B.
(1) Total number of specified securities on offer @ ₹ 600 per share: 1 crore specified
securities.


(2) Specified securities on offer for non-institutional investors’ category: fifteen lakh
specified securities.


(3) Out of the total non-institutional investors’ category,
   (a) Reserved for applications above two lakhs rupees and up to ten lakhs rupees -i.e., five
       lakhs of specified securities
   (b) Balance for applications above ten lakhs rupees - ten lakhs specified securities
(4) The issue is overall subscribed by 7 times, whereas the non-institutional investors’
category, reserved for applications above two lakh rupees and up to ten lakh rupees -i.e.,
five lakhs of specified securities is oversubscribed 89.17 times.


(5) The issuer has fixed the minimum lot size as 20 specified securities (falling within the
range of ten thousand to fifteen thousand rupees) and in multiples thereof.


(6) Therefore, the minimum application size for non-institutional investors’ is 340 specified
securities (i.e. the application value should be more than two lakh rupees and in multiples of
one lot (i.e. 20 specified securities) thereof.




                                            452
(7) A total of fifty thousand investors have applied in the issue under 3(a) category, in
varying number of application sizes i.e. between 17 – 83 lots (340 to 1660 specified
securities), based on the maximum application size of up to ten lakh rupees.


(8) As per the allotment procedure, the allotment to non-institutional investors shall not be
less than the minimum application size, subject to availability of shares.


(9) Since the total number of specified securities on offer to the non-institutional investors’
applications under 3(a) is 5,00,000 and the minimum application size is 340 specified
securities, the maximum number of non-institutional investors’ who can be allotted this
minimum application size should be 1,471. In other words, 1,471 applicants shall get the
minimum application size and the remaining 48,529 applicants will not get any allotment.

The details of the allotment shall be as follows:

                                                    No. of investors who
              No. of      No.       of Total no. of
                                                    shall     receive      lots
  No.      of shares      investors    shares
                                                    according to minimum
  lots        at each     applying at applied for
                                                    application size (to be
              lot         each lot     at each lot
                                                    selected by a lottery)

  A            B          C                D= (B*C)      E

  17           340        2,500            8,50,000      74= (1,471/50,000) *2,500
  18           360        1,000            3,60,000      29
  19           380        1,000            3,80,000      29
  20           400        1,000            4,00,000      29
  21           420        1,000            4,20,000      29
  22           440        1,000            4,40,000      29
  23           460        1,000            4,60,000      29
  24           480        500              2,40,000      15
  25           500        500              2,50,000      15
  26           520        500              2,60,000      15
  27           540        500              2,70,000      15
  28           560        1,000            5,60,000      29
  29           580        1,000            5,80,000      29
  30           600        500              3,00,000      15
  31           620        1,000            6,20,000      29
  32           640        1,000            6,40,000      29
  33           660        1,000            6,60,000      29
  34           680        1,000            6,80,000      29
  35           700        1,000            7,00,000      29
  36           720        500              3,60,000      15
  37           740        1,000            7,40,000      29


                                             453
38   760    1,000   7,60,000    29
39   780    1,000   7,80,000    29
40   800    1,000   8,00,000    29
41   820    1,000   8,20,000    29
42   840    1,000   8,40,000    29
43   860    500     4,30,000    15
44   880    1,000   8,80,000    29
45   900    1,000   9,00,000    29
46   920    1,000   9,20,000    29
47   940    1,000   9,40,000    29
48   960    1,000   9,60,000    29
49   980    1,000   9,80,000    29
50   1000   1,000   10,00,000   29
51   1020   1,000   10,20,000   29
52   1040   1,000   10,40,000   29
53   1060   1,000   10,60,000   29
54   1080   500     5,40,000    15
55   1100   500     5,50,000    15
56   1120   500     5,60,000    15
57   1140   500     5,70,000    15
58   1160   500     5,80,000    15
59   1180   500     5,90,000    15
60   1200   500     6,00,000    15
61   1220   500     6,10,000    15
62   1240   500     6,20,000    15
63   1260   500     6,30,000    15
64   1280   500     6,40,000    15
65   1300   500     6,50,000    15
66   1320   500     6,60,000    15
67   1340   500     6,70,000    15
68   1360   500     6,80,000    15
69   1380   500     6,90,000    15
70   1400   500     7,00,000    15
71   1420   500     7,10,000    15
72   1440   500     7,20,000    15
73   1460   500     7,30,000    15
74   1480   500     7,40,000    15
75   1500   500     7,50,000    15
76   1520   500     7,60,000    15
77   1540   500     7,70,000    15
78   1560   500     7,80,000    15
79   1580   500     7,90,000    15
80   1600   500     8,00,000    15
81   1620   500     8,10,000    15

                     454
      82            1640       500              8,20,000       15
      83            1660       500              8,30,000       15
      TOTAL                    50,000           4,48,50,000    1,471

NOTE: For applications under category 3(b), calculation methodology shall be similar to above.]

               735[Part  A2 - Illustration explaining the procedure of allotment for non-
               institutional investors in case of initial public offer by SME companies.

               Example A.
               (1) Total number of specified securities on offer @₹ 20 per share: 7.2 crore
               specified securities.

               (2) Specified securities on offer for non-institutional investors’ category: 108 lakhs
               specified securities (with 15% allocation).

               (3) Out of the total non-institutional investors’ category,
               (a) one third is reserved for applications above two lots and up to such lots
               equivalent to application size not more than ten lakh rupees -i.e. 36 lakhs of
               specified securities
               (b) balance two-third is reserved for applications above ten lakh rupees – i.e. 72
               lakhs of specified securities

               (4) The issue is over-all subscribed by 2.5 times, whereas the non-institutional
               investors’ category mentioned in 3 (a) above is oversubscribed 1.5 times and 3(b)
               is oversubscribed 3 times.

               (5) The issuer has fixed the lot size as 6000 specified securities (based on SEBI
               Circular dated February 21, 2012 – Standardized lot size for SME Exchange/
               Platform) and in multiples thereof.

               (6) Therefore, the minimum application size for non-institutional investors is
               18,000 specified securities (i.e. the application should be for more than two lots
               and in multiples of one lot (i.e. 6000 specified securities) thereof).

                (7) A total of one hundred investors have applied in the issue under 3(a) category,
               in varying number of application size i.e. between 3 to 8 lots (18,000 to 48,000
               specified securities), based on the maximum application size under 3(a) not more
               than ten lakh rupees (Application size of 8 lots = 8*6000*20 = 9,60,000/-).




735
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.



                                                  455
(8) Out of the one hundred investors, there are five non-institutional investors A, B,
C, D and E who have applied as follows: A has applied for 18,000 specified
securities. B has applied for 30,000 specified securities. C has applied for 36,000
specified securities. D has applied for 42,000 specified securities and E has applied
for 48,000 specified securities.

(9) As the allotment to a non-institutional investor cannot be less than the
minimum application size in NII category, subject to availability of shares, the
remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis.

The actual entitlement shall be as follows:

   Sr.       Name of     Total       Total number of specified securities
   No.       Investor    Number of eligible to be allotted
                         specified
                         securities
                         applied for
   1         A           18,000      18,000 specified securities (i.e. the
                                     minimum applications size)
   2         B           24,000      18,000 specified securities (i.e. the
                                     minimum applications size) + 0 specified
                                     securities {Since, [{36,00,000 - (100 *
                                     18000)} / {54,00,000 - (100 * 18000)}] *
                                     6000 (i.e. 24,000-18,000) = 3000
                                     securities; which is less than 1 lot, so no
                                     additional lot shall be allotted}
   3         C           30,000      18,000 specified securities (i.e. the
                                     minimum applications size) + 6000
                                     specified securities {Since, [{36,00,000 -
                                     (100 * 18000)} / {54,00,000 - (100 *
                                     18000)}] * 12000 (i.e. 30,000-18,000) =
                                     6000 securities}
   4         D           42,000      18,000 specified securities (i.e. the
                                     minimum applications size) + 12000
                                     specified securities {Since, [{36,00,000 -
                                     (100 * 18000)} / {54,00,000 - (100 *
                                     18000)}] * 24000 (i.e. 42,000-18,000) =
                                     12000 securities}
   5         E           48,000      18,000 specified securities (i.e. the
                                     minimum applications size) + 12000
                                     specified securities {Since, [{36,00,000 -
                                     (100 * 18000)} / {54,00,000 - (100 *
                                     18000)}] * 30000 (i.e. 48,000-18,000) =
                                     15000 securities; which is more than 2
                                     lots but less than 3 lots, therefore only 2


                                 456
                                                       lots shall be allotted}


             NOTE: For category 3(b), calculation methodology shall be similar to above.

Example B.
             (1) Total number of specified securities on offer @₹ 20 per share: 7.2 crore
             specified securities.


             (2) Specified securities on offer for non-institutional investors’ category: 108 lakhs
             specified securities (with 15% allocation).


             (3) Out of the total non-institutional investors’ category,

                     (a) one third is reserved for applications above two lots and up to such lots
             equivalent to application size not more than ten lakh rupees -i.e. 36 lakhs of
             specified securities

                      (b) balance two-third is reserved for applications above ten lakh rupees –
             i.e. 72 lakhs of specified securities

             (4) The issue is over-all subscribed by 7.16 times, whereas the non-institutional
             investors’ category mentioned in 3 (a) above is oversubscribed 15.5 times and 3(b)
             is oversubscribed 3 times.


             (5) The issuer has fixed the lot size as 6000 specified securities (based on SEBI
             Circular dated February 21, 2012 – Standardized lot size for SME Exchange/
             Platform) and in multiples thereof.


             (6) Therefore, the minimum application size for non-institutional investors’ is
             18,000 specified securities (i.e. the application should be for more than two lots
             and in multiples of one lot (i.e. 6000 specified securities) thereof).


              (7) A total of two thousand investors have applied in the issue under 3(a) category,
             in varying number of application size i.e. between 3 to 8 lots (18,000 to 48,000
             specified securities), based on the maximum application size under 3(a) not more
             than ten lakh rupees (Application size of 8 lots = 8*6000*20 = 9,60,000/-).


              (8) As per the allotment procedure, the allotment to non-institutional investors
             shall not be less than the minimum application size in NII category, subject to
             availability of shares.



                                               457
                (9) Since the total number of specified securities on offer to the non-institutional
               investors’ applications under 3(a) is 36,00,000 and the minimum application size is
               18,000 specified securities, the maximum number of non-institutional investors’
               who can be allotted this minimum application size should be 200. In other words,
               200 applicants shall get the minimum application size (by draw of lots) and the
               remaining 1800 applicants will not get any allotment.


               The details of the allotment shall be as follows:

                No.      No. of shares No. of           Total no. of    No. of investors who
                of       at each lot   investors        shares          shall receive lots
                lots                   applying at      applied for     according to minimum
                                       each lot         at each lot     application size (to be
                                                                        selected by a lottery)
                A        B              C               D= (B*C)        E
                3        18,000         600             90,00,000       60= (200/2000) *600
                4        24,000         400             96,00,000       40 =(200/2000) *400
                5        30,000         300             90,00,000       30
                6        36,000         300             1,08,00,000     30
                7        42,000         300             1,26,00,000     30
                8        48,000         100             48,00,000       10
                Tot                     2000            5,58,00,000     200
                al
                                                                                                   ]



         SCHEDULE XV - FORMAT OF REPORT FOR GREEN SHOE OPTION
                            [See regulation 57(10), 153(10) and 279(10)]




(1)   Name of the issuer:
(2)   Name of the Stabilising Agent (Registration No. as a merchant banker with SEBI):
(3)   Issue size (No. of securities):
(4)   Issue opened on:
(5)   Issue closed on:
(6)   Over-allotment in the issue (per cent):
(7)   Date of commencement of trading:
(8)   Amount in the ‘Green Shoe Option Bank Account’ (in rupees):
(9)   Name of the promoter and number of the shares borrowed:


                                                458
(10) Date on which the stabilisation period ended:
(11) Number of shares bought during the stabilization period:
(12) Date on which the issuer allotted further shares to the extent of the shortfall:
(13) Date when the shares in the Green Shoe Option Demat Account were returned to the
        promoter(s):
(14) Date when the money in the Green Shoe Option Bank Account was remitted to the issuer:
(15) Details of the Depository account (Special account for Green Shoe Option securities) where
        shares purchased from the market were kept inter-alia the following:
        (a)   Depository Participant
        (b)   Account No.
        (c)   Number of shares purchased, date wise.
        (d)   Number of shares taken out, date wise.
(16) Details of amount transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by
        the Board:
         Amount (in rupees)                    Cheque/Pay Order details




Place:                                                       Stabilising Agent with Official Seal
Date:


SCHEDULE XVI - NATURE OF CHANGES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT REQUIRING
                           FILING OF UPDATED OFFER DOCUMENT
                     [See regulation 25(6) 736{59E (3)}, 737[***] 123(6) and 186(5)]


(1)     Changes which require fresh filing of the draft offer document with the Board, along
        with fees:
        If changes are made in the offer document with respect to any of the following, the issuer
        shall file fresh draft offer document with the Board in terms of applicable provisions of
        these regulations, along with the fees as specified 738[Schedule III]:


736
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.
737
     The numbers and symbols “71(6),” omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.
738
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word and symbol “Schedule IV”.

                                                      459
       (a)   Change in promoter of the issuer.
       (b)   Change in more than half of the board of directors of the issuer.
       (c)   Change in main object clause of the issuer.
       (d)   Any addition to objects of the issue resulting in an increase in the estimated issue size
             or estimated means of finance by more than twenty per cent.
       (e)   If there are grounds to believe that there is an exacerbation of risk on account of
             deletion of an object resulting in a decrease in issue size by more than twenty per cent
             739
       (f)         [ Any Increase or Decrease:
                     (i) In case of a fresh issue: any increase or decrease in estimated issue size
                        740
                              [(in Rupee value)] by more than twenty per cent. 741[***]; or


                     (ii) In case of an offer for sale: any increase or decrease in either the number of
                        shares offered for sale or the estimated issue size 742[(in Rupee value),
                        whichever is disclosed in the draft offer document], by more than fifty per
                        cent.; or


                     (iii) In case of an issue comprising of both fresh issue and offer for sale: the
                        respective limits as above shall apply.]
       (g)   Any increase in estimated deployment in any of the objects of the issue by more than
             twenty per cent.


Changes which may result in non-compliance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and the lead
manager(s) or issuer do not intend to seek relaxation under regulation 303 of the said regulations.


(2)    Changes which require filing of the updated offer document with the Board, along
       with fees:




739
    Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018. Prior to its substitution, sub-clause (f) read as follows,-
               “(f) Any increase or decrease in estimated issue size by more than twenty per cent.”
740
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
741
    The words “of the estimated issue size” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
742
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.

                                                       460
      (a)     If changes are made in the offer document with respect to any of the following, the
              issuer shall file an updated offer document with the Board , along with payment of
              fees as specified in 743[Schedule III]
              (i)    Section 1: Risk Factors: Any material development which may result in
                     potential risk and may require updation in this section.
              (ii)   Section 2: Capital Structure: An aggregate increase of 5 per cent. or more in
                     the shareholding of the promoter or promoter group or an aggregate increase of
                     5 per cent. or more in the shareholding of the top ten shareholders.
              (iii) Section 3: Issue Size: Any addition or deletion to the objects of the issue
                     resulting in a change in the estimated issue size or estimated means of finance
                     by more than 10 per cent. and not exceeding 20 per cent.
              (iv) Section 4: Management: Appointment of any new director.
              (v)    Section 5: Promoter Group: Any addition to the promoter group or group
                     companies.
              (vi) Section 6: Financial Statements: Any variation in net profit after tax or net
                     loss and/ or extraordinary items in excess of 10 per cent. over the last updated
                     financials included in the draft offer document.
              (vii) Section 7: Legal and other information: Any new litigation or any
                     development about a pending litigation which is considered material by the lead
                     manager(s).


      (a)     After filing the updated offer document with the Board, the issuer may proceed with
              the issue after receiving a confirmation to this effect from the Board.


(3)   Changes which require filing of the updated offer document with the Board, without
      fees:
      All other changes or updations in the offer document which are not covered under paras (1)
      and (2) above shall be carried out in the offer document and the updated offer document
      shall be filed with the Board, without any fees.


      744[SCHEDULE XVI-A - NATURE OF CHANGES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT


                     REQUIRING FILING OF UPDATED OFFER DOCUMENT



743
   Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word and symbol “Schedule IV”.

                                                   461
                                          [See regulation 59E (2)]


(1) Changes which require fresh filing of the pre-filed draft offer document or draft offer
       document with the Board, along with fees:


(a) If changes are made in the pre-filed draft offer document after receipt of observations or
       comments from the Board with respect to any of the following, the issuer shall file the fresh
       pre-filed draft offer document or draft offer document with the Board in terms of the
       applicable provisions of these regulations, along with the fees as specified in Schedule III:
      (i) Change in the promoter of the issuer.
      (ii) Change in more than half of the board of directors of the issuer.
      (iii) Change in the main objects clause of the issuer.
      (iv) Any addition to the objects of the issue resulting in an increase in the estimated issue size
          or estimated means of finance by more than fifty per cent.
      (v) If there are grounds to believe that there is an exacerbation of risk on account of deletion of
          an object resulting in a decrease in issue size by more than fifty per cent.
      (vi) In case of a fresh issue, any increase or decrease in the estimated issue size 745[(in Rupee
          value)] by more than fifty percent.
      (vii) In case of an offer for sale, any increase or decrease in the number of shares offered for
          sale or the estimated issue size 746[(in Rupee value), whichever is disclosed in the draft
          offer document], by more than fifty percent.
      (viii) In case of an issue comprising of both fresh issue and offer for sale, any increase or
          decrease in the respective limits as specified in clause (vi) and clause (vii).
      (ix) Any increase in estimated deployment in any of the objects of the issue by more than
          twenty per cent.
(b) Changes which may result in non-compliance with the provisions of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and
the lead manager(s) or issuer do not intend to seek relaxation under regulation 303 of the said
regulations.




744
    Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w-e-f 21.11.2022.
745
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.
746
     Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024.

                                                      462
(2) Changes which require filing of the updated pre-filed offer document with the Board,
along with fees:
(a) If changes are made in the pre-filed offer document with respect to any of the following, the
issuer shall file an updated offer document with the Board, along with payment of fees as
specified in Schedule III:
   (i) Section 1: Risk Factors: Any material development which may result in potential risk and
        may require updation in this section.
   (ii) Section 2: Capital Structure: An aggregate increase of 5 percent or more in the
        shareholding of the promoter or promoter group or an aggregate increase of 5 per cent. or
        more in the shareholding of the top ten shareholders.
   (iii) Section 3: Issue Size: Any addition or deletion to the objects of the issue resulting in a
        change in the estimated issue size or estimated means of finance by more than 10 percent
        and not exceeding 20 per cent.
   (iv) Section 4: Management: Appointment of any new director.
   (v) Section 5: Promoter Group: Any addition to the promoter group or group companies.
   (vi) Section 6: Financial Statements: Any variation in net profit after tax or net loss and/ or
        extraordinary items in excess of 10 percent over the last updated financials included in the
        draft offer document.
   (vii) Section 7: Legal and other information: Any new litigation or any development about a
        pending litigation which is considered material by the lead manager(s).
(b) After filing the updated offer document with the Board, the issuer may proceed with the issue
after receiving a confirmation to this effect from the Board.


(3) Changes which require filing of the updated offer document with the Board, without
fees:
All other changes or updations in the pre-filed offer document which are not covered under paras
(1) and (2) above shall be carried out in the offer document and the updated offer document shall
be filed with the Board without any fees.]


                SCHEDULE XVII - FORMATS OF POST-ISSUE REPORTS
                   Part A - Format of final post-issue report for a public issue
                                [See regulations 55, 151, 210 and 273]


                      Subscription Status: (Subscribed / Undersubscribed)
Note:

                                                 463
The lead manager(s) shall provide correct information after verifying it from the issuer and the
registrar to the issue.


(I)   IN CASE OF A SUBSCRIBED ISSUE:


(1)   Name of the issuer            :
(2)   Issue opening date            :
(3)   Actual closing date           :
(4)   Issue Details (as per the prospectus)       :
       (a) Nature of specified securities (equity             :
             shares/fully convertible debentures/partly
             convertible debentures, etc.)
       (b) Offer price per instrument                         :
       (c) Amount per instrument on application               :
       (d) Issue size (` lakhs)                               :
(5)   Number of collecting banks                                                            :
        (Also specify number of bank branches)
(6)   Bank-wise names of branches which did not submit final consolidated certificates on the date
        of closure of the issue and the dates when they actually submitted the same :
(7)   Subscription Details:
      (a)    Public Offer (Net) (including unsubscribed portion of the reserved category added back
             to the net public offer)
             (i)       No. of applications received               :
             (ii)      No. of instruments applied for             :
             (iii)     Amount of subscription received (` lakhs) :
             (iv)      No. of times issue subscribed              :
      (b)    Information relating to reserved categories
                     Reservations         No. of applications No. of instruments   Amount
                     Employees
                     Others
                     (Specify)
(8)   Date of finalisation of the Basis of Allotment (enclose copy of Basis of Allotment)   :
(9)   Allotment Details:
      (a)    No. of successful allottees per 1 lakh shares :
      (b)    No. of unsuccessful allottees        :

                                                        464
(1)    Date of completion of:
       (a)   Unblocking instructions         :
       (b)   Certificates/Allotment Letters          :
       (c)   Reasons for delay, if any :         :
(2)    Amount of refund due         :`
(3)    Name and address of the Refund Banker :
(4)    Date of transfer of refund amount to the Refund Banker, if any     :
(5)    Name of the Designated Stock Exchange :
(6)    Names of other stock exchanges where listing sought         :
(7)    Dates on which application was filed with each stock exchange for listing   :
(8)    Dates on which listing and trading permission was given by each stock exchange (enclose
       copies of permission letters of the stock exchanges)    :
(9)    Reasons for delay in listing, if any :


(II)   IN CASE OF UNDER SUBSCRIBED ISSUE:


(1)    If the issue is underwritten, the amount of issue underwritten                  :
(2)    Extent of under-subscription on the date of closure of the issue
       (a)   Percentage                  :
       (b)   Amount                      :
(3)    Total number of underwriters                                                    :
(4)    If the devolvement notices had not been issued, how was the shortfall met       :
(5)    Number of underwriters to whom devolvement notices had been issued              :
(6)    Date of issue of devolvement notices                                            :
(7)    Number of underwriters who did not honour the devolvement (Names, amount underwritten
       and reasons for not honouring)                                                  :
(8)    In case of default by the underwriters, how was the shortfall was met           :
(9)    In case QIBs have subscribed to make up the shortfall, not as an underwriter :
       (a)   Names of the QIBs           :
       (b)   Number of securities applied for :
       (c)   Amount received             :


Certified that the information given above and also in the enclosures are true to the best of our
knowledge and no unblocking or demat credits are pending.



                                                         465
Certified that the specified securities to be locked-in are duly inscribed with the words “specified
securities cannot be hypothecated / transferred / sold till .........” or necessary instructions to this effect
have been sent to the depositories.


Signed by


Registrars to the issue                       Issuer                       Lead manager(s)




Place:
Date:


                    Part B - Format of initial post-issue report for a rights issue
                                          [See regulation 96(a)]


                          Subscription Status: (Subscribed / Undersubscribed)


Note: The lead manager(s) shall provide correct information after verifying it from the issuer and the
registrar to the issue.


(1)     Name of the issuer          :
(2)     Issue opening date          :
(3)     Actual closing date         :
(4)     Date of filing of the letter of offer with the stock exchanges     :
(5)     Issue details (as per the letter of offer)         :
         (a) Basis of offer (ratio)                            :
         (b) Nature of specified securities (equity            :
              shares/fully convertible debentures/partly
              convertible debentures, etc.)
         (c) Offer price per instrument                        :
         (d) Amount per instrument on application              :
         (e) Issue size (` lakhs)                              :
(6)     Record date       :
(7)     Provisional subscription details of the issue      :



                                                     466
         (a) Total amount that was to be collected on :
              application (` lakhs)
         (b) Actual amount collected on application (`       :
              lakhs)
         (c) Per cent. subscribed i.e. per cent. of (ii) to :
              (i)
         (d) Whether 90 per cent. minimum                    : Yes/ No
              subscription collected




Signed by


Registrars to the issue                    Issuer                        Lead manager(s)


Place:
Date:


                       Part C - Format of final post-issue report for a rights issue
                                           [See regulations 96(b)]


                              Subscription Status: (Subscribed / Undersubscribed)


Notes:
The lead manager(s) shall provide correct information after verifying it from the issuer and the
registrar to the issue.


(A)     IN CASE OF A SUBSCRIBED ISSUE:


(1)      Name of the issuer
(2)      Issue opening date
(3)      Actual issue closing date
(4)      Issue details (as per the letter of offer)



                                                      467
       (a)            Basis of offer
       (b)            Nature of the instrument
       (c)            Offer price per instrument
       (d)            Amount per instrument on application
       (e)            Issue size (` lakhs)
(5)    3-Day Report
       (a) Due on
       (b) Submitted on
(6)    Number of collecting banks (also specify number of bank
       branches)
(7)    Bank-wise names of branches which did not submit the
       final consolidated certificate on the date of closure of the
       issue and the dates when they actually submitted the same
(8)    Details of subscription
       a) Percentage of rights issue taken up by
                      (i) Promoters
                      (ii)Other Shareholders
       b) Percentage of rights issue renounced by
                      (i) Promoters
                      (ii) Other Shareholders
       c) Percentage of rights issue taken by shareholders/
             renounces
       d) Percentage of rights issue for suitable allotment at the
             disposal of the Board
       e) Out of the unsubscribed portion, as in above, taken by
                      (i) Promoters
                      (ii) Other Shareholders
(9)    Promoters’ shareholding                                        No. of shares   Percentage
       f)    Prior to the issue
       g) On expanded capital after the issue
(10)   Date of finalisation of allotment (enclose copy of the
       Basis of Allotment)
             (a) Name and address of the Refund Banker
             (b) Amount of refund due



                                                   468
            (c) Date of transfer of refund amount to the Refund
            Banker, if any
(11)    Dates of
            (a) Unblocking      instructions
            (b) Demat credits
            (c) Reasons for delay, if any


(12)    Name of the Designated Stock Exchange
(13)    Names of the other stock exchanges where listing sought
(14)    15th day from the date of closure of the issue
(15)    Dates on which application was filed with each stock
        exchange for listing of instruments
(16)    Dates on which listing and trading permission was given
        by each stock exchange (enclose copies of permission
        letters of the stock exchanges)
(17)    Reason for delay in listing, if any


(B)    IN CASE OF UNDER-SUBSCRIBED ISSUE:


(1)    Name of the issuer
(2)    Extent of under-subscription on the date of closure of the
       issue
       a) Percentage
       b) Amount
(3)    Details of standby assistance, if any
       a) Number of underwriters
       b) Number of underwriters who did not honour the
       devolvement (Names, amount underwritten and reasons for
       not honouring)
(4)    In case QIBs have subscribed to make up the shortfall, not
       as an underwriter
       a) Names of the QIBs
       b) No. of securities applied for
       c) Amount received



                                                  469
Certified that the information given above and also in the enclosures are true to the best of our
knowledge and no unblocking/ demat credit are pending.


Certified that the specified securities to be locked-in are duly inscribed with the words "specified
securities cannot be hypothecated / transferred / sold till .........” or necessary instructions to this effect
have been sent to the depositories.


Signed by
Registrars to the issue                       Issuer                       Lead manager(s)


Place:
Date:


 SCHEDULE XVIII - FORMAT OF UNDERWRITING DEVOLVEMENT STATEMENT
                     [See regulation 52(7), 93(7), 148(7), 202(4), 207(7) and 271(7)]


(1)     Name of the lead manager(s)747[ /designated stock exchange]                   :


(2)     Name of the issuer                                                        :


(3)     Issue size                                                                :


(4)     Statement of non-acceptance of underwriting devolvement                   :


          Sr. Name of the          Amount         Amount          Date of issue of        Reasons for not
          No. underwriter underwritten devolved                       notice of              accepting
                                                               devolvement, if any         devolvement




747
   Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025.



                                                     470
           SCHEDULE XIX - LISTING OF SECURITIES ON STOCK EXCHANGES
                       [See regulation 7(1)(a), 62(1)(a), 104(1)(a) and 183(3)(a)]


In-principle approval of recognised stock exchange(s)
(1) The issuer shall obtain an in-principle approval from the recognised stock exchange as
follows:
a)   in case of an initial public offer or an issue of Indian Depository Receipts (hereinafter
     referred to as ‘IDRs’), from all the recognised stock exchange(s) on which the issuer,
     proposes to get its specified securities or IDRs, as the case may be, listed; and
b)   in case of other issues, before issuance of further securities, as follows:
     (i) where the securities are listed only on the recognised stock exchange(s) having
           nationwide trading terminals, from all such stock exchange(s);
     (ii) where the securities are not listed on any recognised stock exchange having nationwide
           trading terminals, from all the stock exchange(s) on which the securities of the issuer are
           proposed to be listed;
     (iii) where the specified securities are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) having
           nationwide trading terminals as well as on the recognised stock exchange(s) not having
           nationwide trading terminals, from all recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide
           trading terminals.


Application for listing
(1) The issuer shall complete the pre-listing formalities within the timelines specified by the
Board.


(2) The issuer shall make an application for listing, from the date of allotment, within such period
as may be specified by the Board from time to time,               to one or more recognized stock
exchange(s).


(3) In the event of failure to make an application for listing by the issuer within the time stipulated
in (2) above, or non-receipt of the listing permission by the issuer from the stock exchange(s) or
withdrawal of the Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the securities
shall not be eligible for listing and the issuer shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if
any, to the respective allottees immediately, along with penal interest for each day of delay at the
rate of fifteen per cent. per annum from the date of allotment.



                                                 471
Listing agreement
Every issuer desirous of listing its securities on a stock exchange shall execute a listing agreement
with such a stock exchange in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Obligation of stock exchange(s)
The stock exchange(s) shall grant an in-principle approval or list the securities or reject the
application for the in-principle approval or listing by the issuer within thirty days from the later
of the following dates:
(a) the date of receipt of application for in-principle approval or listing from issuer;
(b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the issuer in cases where the stock exchange(s)
has sought any clarification from it.


SCHEDULE XX - CONDITIONS/ MANNER OF PROVIDING EXIT OPPORTUNITY TO
                                   DISSENTING SHAREHOLDERS
                                   See 748[regulation 59, 157 and 281A]


Applicability
(1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to an exit offer made by the promoters or
shareholders in control of an issuer to the dissenting shareholders in terms of section 13(8) and
section 27(2) of the Companies Act, 2013, in case of change in objects or variation in the terms of
contract referred to in the offer document.


(2) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where there are neither identifiable promoters
nor shareholders in control of the listed issuer.


Definitions
For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a) “dissenting shareholders” means those shareholders who have voted against the resolution for
      change in objects or variation in terms of a contract relating to objects, referred to in the offer
      document of the issuer;




748
   The words and numerals “regulation 59 and 157” are substituted with the words and numerals “regulations 59, 157
and 281A” vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025.

                                                      472
(b) “frequently traded shares” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Securities and
      Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations,
      2011.
(c) “relevant date” means date of the board meeting in which the proposal for change in objects or
      variation in terms of a contract relating to objects, referred to in the offer document is
      approved, before seeking shareholders’ approval.


Conditions for exit offer
The promoter or the shareholders in control, as the case may be, shall make an exit offer in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, to the dissenting shareholders, in cases only if a
public issue has opened after April 1, 2014; if,
(a)    the proposal for change in objects or variation in terms of a contract, referred to in the offer
       document is dissented by at least ten per cent. of the shareholders who voted in the general
       meeting; and
(b)    the amount to be utilized for the objects for which the offer document was issued is less than
       seventy five per cent. of the amount raised (including the amount earmarked for general
       corporate purposes as disclosed in the offer document).


Eligibility of shareholders for availing the exit offer
Only those dissenting shareholders of the issuer who are holding shares as on the relevant date
shall be eligible to avail the exit offer.


Exit price
The ‘exit price’ payable to the dissenting shareholders shall be the highest of the following:
      (a) the volume-weighted average price paid or payable for acquisitions, whether by the
         promoters or by any person acting in concert with them, during the fifty-two weeks
         immediately preceding the relevant date;
      (b) the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the promoter or by any
         person acting in concert with them, during the twenty-six weeks immediately preceding
         the relevant date;
      (c) the volume-weighted average market price of such shares for a period of sixty trading days
         immediately preceding the relevant date as traded on the stock exchange where the
         maximum volume of trading in the shares of the issuer are recorded during such period,
         provided such shares are frequently traded;



                                                   473
  (d) where the shares are not frequently traded, the price determined by the promoter or
      shareholders having control and the lead manager(s) taking into account valuation
      parameters including book value, comparable trading multiples, and such other parameters
      as are customary for valuation of shares of such issuers.


Manner of providing exit to dissenting shareholders.
(1) The notice proposing the passing of special resolution for changing the objects of the issue
and varying the terms of contract relating to objects, referred to in the offer document, shall also
contain information about the provision for an exit offer to the dissenting shareholders.
(2) A statement to the effect that the promoter/shareholders in control shall provide an exit
opportunity to the dissenting shareholders shall be included in the explanatory statement to the
notice for passing special resolution.
(3) After passing of the special resolution, the issuer shall submit the voting results to the stock
exchange(s), in terms of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(4) The issuer shall also submit the list of dissenting shareholders, as certified by its compliance
officer, to the stock exchange(s).
(5) The promoter /shareholders in control, as the case may be, shall appoint a merchant banker
registered with the Board and finalize the exit offer price in accordance with these regulations.
(6) The issuer shall intimate the stock exchange(s) about the exit offer to dissenting shareholders
and the price at which such offer is being given.
(7) The stock exchange(s) shall, on receipt of such intimation, disseminate the same the public
within one working day.
(8) To ensure security for performance of their obligations, the promoter or shareholders in
control, as the case may be,, shall create an escrow account which may be interest-bearing and
deposit the aggregate consideration in the escrow account at least two working days prior to
opening of the tendering period.
(9) The tendering period shall start not later than seven working days from the passing of the
special resolution and shall remain open for ten working days.
(10) The dissenting shareholders who have tendered their shares in acceptance of the exit offer
shall have the option to withdraw such acceptance till the date of closure of the tendering period.


(11) The promoter /shareholders in control, as the case may be, shall facilitate tendering of shares
by the shareholders and settlement of the same through the stock exchange mechanism as
specified by SEBI for the purpose of takeover, buy-back and delisting.

                                               474
(12) The promoter /shareholders in control, as the case may be, shall, within a period of ten
working days from the last date of the tendering period, make payment of the consideration to the
dissenting shareholders who have accepted the exit offer.
(13) Within a period of two working days from the payment of the consideration, the issuer shall
furnish to the stock exchange(s), disclosures giving details of aggregate number of shares
tendered, accepted, payment of the consideration and the post-offer shareholding pattern of the
issuer and a report by the lead manager(s) that the payment has been duly made to all the
dissenting shareholders whose shares have been accepted in the exit offer.


Offer not to exceed maximum permissible non-public shareholding.
In the event the shares accepted in the exit offer were such that the shareholding of the promoters
or shareholders in control, taken together with persons acting in concert with them pursuant to
completion of the exit offer, results in their shareholding exceeding the maximum permissible
non-public shareholding, the promoters or shareholders in control, as applicable, shall be
required to bring down the non-public shareholding to the level specified and within the time
permitted under Securities Contract (Regulation) Rules, 1957.




                                                                                              Sd/-
                                                                                   AJAY TYAGI
                                                                                    CHAIRMAN
                                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA




                                               475
